Here they are for one and all, the movements are about to come, come on and sit down here with me.
Here for you are your TV, they are the movements, they are the movements.
So come with me, give me your hand, I'll take you up to a moment land.
You can fly just like a bird, sing that song ever, there were the movements, there were the movements,
there were the movements, there were the movements, there were the movements, there were the movements.
Ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha.
Have you ever heard of Moombin valley?
In winter, deep white snow covers the whole valley, and everyone goes to sleep so that they
keep warm.
Look, there's a woman house.
This woman, our hero,
and Papa, and Mum and Mama.
And this little bundle must be little my.
I think before our story starts, we'd better wake everyone up with some spring sunshine.
At last, it's spring.
Wake up everyone, it's spring time.
I can't help it if I'm happy.
So yeah, woke me.
I was having a lovely dream about living in a watermelon, but it's beautiful outside.
Oh gee, isn't it, is it really moving?
Yes, it's all fresh, the flowers are out and the sun is shining, so I like being asleep.
But it's spring, you said you wanted me to wake you as soon as spring was here.
Oh boy, did I?
Yes, you did little my.
You said you wanted to be a welcome as soon as spring was here.
Really?
Yes, you did.
Did I say something like that?
You can go back to bed if you want to.
Nobody's making you get up, little my.
No, there's really no point, Mum, and I'm not sleepy anymore.
Well, there you are then.
Mama!
Good spring, Mum.
Mum, and Mama, I'm starving.
Have you got any water, Mellon?
No, but there's lots of other things.
You'll all have a nice, big breakfast.
I can hear a snuff gun.
Wouldn't it be quicker to use the stairs?
More fun this way.
Are you going home now?
Yes, thanks very much for letting me spend the winter here.
Don't think your sister will be back yet, though.
I'll go anyway.
Snuff gun!
Oh, hello, Mum.
It's really good to see you, Snuffkin.
And you too.
Jack Arley, weren't you having a good time?
Yes, I was.
But I didn't want to miss springtime in Mum and Valley.
What did you do?
I'll tell you later.
Let's go wake up, Snuff, and think of something exciting to do.
I don't think he'll like it.
He's still snoring, Mum, and I'll do it again.
Well, that's done it.
Come on, Snuff, it's spring. Snuffkin's here.
Please go away, you two.
We're going to do something really exciting.
Like what, Momen?
I can think of more exciting things to do than this.
Well, let's imagine that we're the first ever to climb this mountain.
It's such a clear day.
We'll be able to see all of Mum and Valley
when we get to the top and the sea.
Good morning, Mr. Emulant.
Morning, Mum, and are your father and mother up?
Yes.
Mum was when I came out.
Good.
I'll never understand how you can sleep for months on end.
We like it.
Why do they always have to do something exciting?
What a gorgeous view.
It really is.
Hey, look, they're small coming from Mum and House.
We should have stayed at home.
My bet Mum and Mama's cooking something good.
Look.
What is it?
We're not the first here after all.
Look over there.
Top hat.
Hmm, a rather large one.
I wonder who's how it is.
I don't know, but I know Papa would like it.
Hmm, it's much too big.
Oh dear, what's it?
It really gets inside.
You see?
I've never put my horn on.
Oh, I can't movement it.
Stop, Mum.
Oh, that's enough nonsense.
I think I'll take it off now.
What's the matter?
I can't move it. It's stuck, Mum.
I'll give you a hand.
Paul, it's harder.
Oh, that's better.
Thank you.
What's all this noise?
Papa's head got stuck in the hat, Mum.
Oh, yes, and where did that come from?
Oh, Mum and Mama.
The children found it when they were out and brought it back for me.
Very smart.
What shall we do with it, Papa?
There is something strange about it.
Shall I throw it away then?
Oh, no, it's too good for that.
Do we know anyone with a very big hand?
No, Mum and Papa.
I know what we can do with it.
Ah, it's a...
A waste paper basket, Mum and Mama.
That's right. Well done, Snuffkin.
That was easy.
Come on, Snuffkin. Come and have some breakfast with us.
Beautiful.
Yes.
Sorry to disturb you, but I'm going to see Mumin.
Uh-huh.
Do you want to come with me, Snork?
Or would you rather stay here?
Uh-huh.
Well, are you coming or not?
Not coming, man?
Uh-huh.
Snork?
Well,~] you know my flying ship is almost finished.
It'll be ready this year, you'll see.
This is in his starlet moment.
Oh, dear. Perhaps it needs a little more work.
I wonder if you really can make a flying ship.
Don't be silly, of course you can't.
A little bit more.
I wonder if you really can make a flying ship.
Silly, of course you can't.
A little, my Snorks always dreamed about doing it.
Dreams are all right.
Yes, as long as they're not impossible.
I suppose so.
Snuff, you're not still feeding your face, are you?
Do you ever dream, Snuff?
Only nightmares about having no food at all, little, my.
Hmm, I wonder who dropped this.
Now where can I put it?
Oh, there you are.
Just the thing.
Oh.
Wow.
Golly, what are they?
They're clouds.
Be careful, don't touch it. It might be poisonous.
It feels like cotton.
Well, eee.
This is great, I'm floating wonderful.
Can I try?
Are you ready, Snork Maiden?
Here we go.
What have you got to hide?
My phone.
Wait for me.
Hey, wait for me.
Whoa.
Let me get on.
Ow.
Ow, I'm falling.
Mumen Papa is in his study, trying to write his memoirs.
A lot has happened to him over the years.
An awful lot.
And he's trying to remember it.
What was that?
Mumen.
Hi, Papa.
What are you doing out there?
We're flying.
The clouds just came out of the house.
Yeah, try and get nearest so I can reach you.
Oh.
No, I'm alright.
Why don't you come for a ride?
Stop, wait a minute.
It's great.
You feel like a bird.
Mumen.
Oh.
Come on, Papa. Jump or you'll fall.
I think it's too late.
Oh.
Mumen Mama quickly.
What's the matter?
Have you seen what the children are doing?
Yes.
Look at them.
They're flying about on clouds.
It can't be safe.
Don't worry, Papa.
It's alright.
I told them to be careful.
Come on, Snapping.
Damn.
I won, I won.
Whoa.
Hey, wait a little cloud.
Wait for me.
Don't go away.
Oh.
I got you.
That was three times.
And I'm going to climb right up here.
And I'm going to get you right there.
This branch.
Come on.
Come on, little cloud.
I'm going to take you with me.
Hey, come on.
You just keep coming back.
Yeah.
I got you now.
You are going to get away from me.
Here I go.
Come on.
All of that ledge.
Stop.
I want you.
Oh.
Oh, boy.
What's happening?
My cloud's starting to go.
Oh, whoa, whoa.
That was fun.
Yeah, it was, but I wasn't ready to stop.
Look, there's movement in Snork Maiden.
Hey.
Why have they still got cloud snuffed in?
There's a starting to go as well.
I think they'd better get off.
Hey.
All right.
I'll start counting.
One, two, three.
Do you want something, little mime?
Oh, yes.
A place to hide.
Five...
Six...
Seven...
Boy, I don't think there's any place to hide in here, is there?
No!
Oh, it's too dirty in there.
I'm gonna have...
I know.
I'll hide in the head.
One, two, one, two, one.
She hit!
Oh!
Gotcha!
What's going on?
Huh?
Snort made, huh?
Hehehe!
Baaah!
Moomin must be around here somewhere.
Well, last time I saw him, he was hiding in the fireplace.
Have you found him yet?
No. Have you looked in the cellar?
Yes, I have.
Wait a minute. Did you hear someone laughing?
Where'd it come from?
G.I. better go home.
Oh, is there anything wrong?
Yes. I can't find Moomin anywhere.
Well, he's too fat to be most places.
He's coming from under the hat!
Well, here I am, sniff.
Oh, on earth are you!
I one land didn't I?
You looked everywhere in the house
and you couldn't find me, could you?
So I won!
I don't want to find you anyway!
Well, you were trying hard enough, weren't you?
What is this, a new game?
My name's Snork Maiden.
What's yours?
I'm the king of Moomin Valley.
My pretty one.
You're too ugly to be the king of anything.
Well, now, that's not a very nice thing to say to your friend.
Is it, Papa?
Now, you'd better tell me what you have done with Moomin, huh?
But I'm here.
Right here.
Who are you? And where is Moomin?
Papa.
I'm certainly not your Papa.
Yes, you are. Come on. I'm Moomin.
I don't know who you are.
But you're not Moomin.
He's nice and handsome and nothing like you.
Have you looked at yourself in a mirror?
Ah!
Where's my nose gone?
I can't hear it anymore.
Ah! Oh no!
My tail's all pushy!
Ah!
Oh!
This is terrible!
Who are you?
What have you done with me?
It must be a nightmare!
I want to go back!
Go away, you're horrible!
Dear me, what's all this noise?
What's happened?
Mama!
What earth is this?
He says he's Moomin, but just look at him.
You don't look like I'm Moomin.
I am, I am.
Please believe me, Mama.
I am Moomin.
Well, I don't know.
I'm sure.
Something's happened to me.
Why do I look so different?
Now then calm down.
This won't help at all.
We don't need all this noise.
If you really are Moomin,
then everything will be all right.
Just give me a minute or two and I'll know.
Mama, call me Moomin, please.
I don't know what's happened, but I am me.
Honestly, I am.
Mama, please believeed me.
Let me see.
Oh, Mama, you do know it's me.
You must.
You can't forget your little Moomin.
Please, Mama, please, Mama.
Oh, hush now, hush now.
Mama!
Shh!
Yes, you're my little Moomin, all right.
Oh, Mama!
Oh.
Oh, Moomin.
Papa.
Oh, Moomin, my boy.
Where were you hiding?
In there.
In the hat?
Let's hope it's the last we'll see of it.
Moomin Papa decided that although it was a fine hat,
it was too dangerous to keep.
So Moomin threw it in the river and it floated away.
He wasn't too sure about it though,
because it was a rather special hat.
The Moomin's are having fun day after day.
The Moomin's.
They love the laughter and they love the living.
They're leaving and sharing and caring and giving the Moomin's.
They're always happy and goes at play.
The Moomin's are having fun day after day.
The Moomin's.
Here they are for one and all.
The Moomin's are about to call.
Come on and sit down here with me.
They're here for you on your TV.
They are the Moomin's.
So come with me, give me your hand.
You can fly just like a bird.
Sing that song ever.
There were the Moomin's.
Snuffkin is put up his tent on the riverbank.
He likes being on his own and has decided to stay there until winter comes.
Snuffkin is a happy and a peace with the world.
Moomin loves to spend as much time as he can as a friend as Snuffkin.
Snuffkin?
Where are you?
He must have forgotten I was coming and gone off somewhere.
How can he enjoy being here on his own?
I'd like to be alone now and then you know.
Oh, silly, let's go and explore.
Maiden.
But we said we'd go today.
Yeah, we did too, Moomin.
You are the one that said it, you know.
Hmm, you did.
I didn't.
You did too.
Oh, you must come.
We're going to collect shells on the beach.
Come on, it'll be fun.
Oh, no.
Hey.
It's sniff.
Where are you guys going?
Oh, I envy Snuffkin.
Oh, why?
I just do.
I wonder where Snuffkin has gone.
I wonder if we'll ever find anything as exciting as the hat.
Yeah, it was very special that hat.
Did you really throw it in the river?
Yeah.
I wish you hadn't.
It was much too dangerous to keep.
Look at the horrible things it did to me.
But what about the eggshells it turned into clouds?
Yeah, it was good fun flying around.
Perhaps I'll find the nicer with a huge pearl inside.
Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh
What? What's happened? We were playing tag and she fell into an ant lion hole. We've got to get her out quickly. Come on, moving. Nearly there is North Maiden just a bit further. Help me, sniff. Give me your hand. Hurry! Look out! It's the ant lion! Look what you're doing to my hole. I'm sorry. I'll be out soon. Stop yelling and kicking like that. You're scaring off my prey.
Are you all right, Snark Maiden? I can't reach her. I don't have to have ants for lunch, you know. Don't be a woman, please. You better get in there, sniff. What? Me? Don't worry. I'll hold on to you. You're the only one tall enough, sniff. Come on. You look nice and tasty. I'll eat you and step. Good, sniff. Look, I'm getting there. You're big.
Don't you call me a big whip? You gotta grab hold of me. I'll work for you.
Thank you. Are you ready? Hold tight.
Come on, nearly a bit.
Where have you been, self-kin? That's a big secret, movement. I won't tell anyone.
All right. It's the magic hat. It's on a sandbank further down the river.
Gosh! But something terrible is happening. What? What is it?
Oh dear, perhaps we shouldn't have thrown it in the river. It's too late now. Let's get there, Cookie.
There it is. It's caught on a branch in the middle.
Where? Oh, Smurfkin. I can see it. Look at the water. It's all red.
Hmm. Seems to be coming from the hat. I wonder what it is, move.
I'll go and get it. Be careful. Shall I come too?
No, you stay there. Have you got it? Uh-huh.
Wow! It's raspberry juice. What should we do with the hat?
Well, I don't think it's a good idea to leave it lying around. Somebody might crawl into it.
But if we put water in it, we can have as much raspberry juice as we can drink.
Well, that would be nice. But you know, movement. It could only be river water that does that. You know what I mean, movement?
Well, I think it's worth experimenting.
What's the matter, Mullen? You look very tired. I woke up in the night and couldn't get back to sleep.
Pardon? Couldn't get back to sleep. Huh. What are you talking about?
I was awake last night too. And I know why you're so tired.
You must have been dreaming. Now, if you'll excuse me, I'm in a hurry. Thanks, mama.
Where are you going, movement? Movement!
Somewhere you can't come. Somewhere private.
So, what was that all about, huh?
Oh, nothing really important, movement, papa.
I think I'll go out.
Ha-ha. Nobody hides anything from little, my.
Snopkin!
Hey, I found out who's had it is. Who's?
The Hobgoblins. The Hobgoblins.
Yeah, I asked the emulant and he told me that he saw him once long ago wearing that.
I heard about the wizard who flies in the sky.
Yeah, on the back of a black panther. The Hobgoblins is hundreds of years old and cares only for rubies.
He rides all over the world, searching for them. He's truly awesome.
And so, when he dropped his hat?
He must have been looking for some rubies right here in Moomin Valley.
Do you think he's got a lot of hats, Snopkin?
Gee, I don't know.
Well, do you think perhaps he doesn't know where he dropped his hat?
Yeah, I suppose that's possible.
Snopkin, there's something I would like to try with the hat.
Just don't put it on. Will you?
He's in there somewhere. Hat lions are pretty stupid, you know.
Yes, Moomin Papa told me it takes him hours to take themselves into the sand.
Oh, no, it doesn't. It only takes the one hour.
Only an hour? You're kidding.
Well, of course, an hour is a long time to spend, digging.
Are you talking about me?
Yes, about how quickly you could dig yourself into a hole in the sand.
A lot quicker than you think it'll take.
Moomin here says it takes you only one hour to dig a hole in the sand.
But I can't believe that.
Snopkin says it takes several hours, but I think he's wrong.
I'll show you how long.
Gosh, that was rather fast.
Yeah, but it's obvious he's already got a ready-made hole hidden there.
Don't you, Aunt Lion.
No, I do not.
I can dig myself in anywhere, anywhere at all.
How about here?
Yeah, okay. Under this rock. All right?
Anywhere. Just show me.
Okay, start from here.
Yeah, just there, if you don't mind.
All right, start counting.
Wow, you only took a second and a half.
He's really something, isn't he?
He certainly is.
I'd better sit on it.
Yeah, he'll be really mad.
So you've caught the Aunt Lion. I've been watching.
Little boy.
Right.
Did you follow us last night?
Yes.
Did you tell the others?
Oh, don't be silly, you guys. I haven't said a word yet.
But you will if we don't let you join in with us.
That's what she's doing, Moomin.
No, as if I do such a thing.
Of course, I'm forgetting how nice and kind you are.
Hey, what is that?
Nope, no hat anywhere.
There's gallons of water.
Gosh, there sure must be a lot of sand in there.
He must have changed into something else by now.
Probably.
It must have been long enough. I'll jump off.
He isn't strong enough to move the rock by himself.
Shall we help him?
No, don't.
Come on, let's do it.
What's happened to him?
Let's turn it over.
Oh, no, I can't look.
Oh.
It's a hedgehog.
You.
What?
You're a hedgehog.
Yeah.
Moomin.
I'll stop it.
Don't push me a little bit.
Why?
Moomin.
I just saw the hobgoblin.
What?
It must have been him.
Do you think he was looking for his hat?
I'm afraid so.
I hope you hit it well.
The seller.
Will it be safe there?
Well, only little my and us two know where it is.
Hmm.
The red?
I wonder if it's possible to change it into spaghetti.
Huh?
Hmm.
Not exactly spaghetti.
Mama!
There's something I think you ought to know.
What is it, dear?
There are strange things happening in the house.
In the house?
There's a tree in the seller.
A tree?
That's nice.
What did you say, a real tree?
Yes, and it seems to be growing and growing.
What have you done, little my?
Just dropped a bit of thread into the magic hat.
But Moomin threw it away.
Yeah, we did.
But we sort of found it again and put it in the seller.
Oh, dear.
We must tell Moomin Papa before it's too late.
Come in.
It's not locked.
Keep going, tree.
You can grow as big as you like.
And just tell me if you're thirsty or anything.
And how about some fruit soon?
I really like pears.
Come in.
I'm very sorry to disturb you, Papa.
What is it?
Well, it's not good.
What do you mean, not good?
I think you'd better come down and have a look at once.
So you can see for yourself what's happening before it's too late.
Too late?
Oh, that sounds a bit ominous.
Don't worry, I'll sort it out whatever the catastrophe.
Now, listen you.
You leave my husband's desk alone or you'll be sorry.
All right, dear.
I'm coming.
Oh.
Well, this is definitely a catastrophe.
I think you'd better get me a saw, Mama.
Oh, sure.
Everything's in the seller and it would be a bit difficult to get in there now, Moomin Papa.
They'll never mind.
We haven't got time.
I'll break them by hand.
Oh.
Gee, look at Moomin house.
Come on, Snork Maiden.
This is fun.
But what happened, little Mai?
I've been gardening that tall.
Aren't I clever?
Whoo!
Well, this catastrophe is going on too long.
I'm hungry.
Oh.
Look on the bright side, Papa.
It could be a long time before we run out of firewood.
There.
Take that.
Oh, oh.
Dad will teach you to try and take over Moomin house.
Papa, look at all these lovely flowers.
And fruit.
Papa, Papa, you must try some.
Oh, they're lovely and juicy.
Oh, no.
Little Mai must have put something into the hat.
Moomin, where are you, Moomin?
Moomin.
Here I am.
Oh, Moomin, I was afraid that you were inside the house.
Mama, Papa, little Mai.
They can't get out.
We'll need some saws and axes.
They must all be in the cellar and we can't get in this way.
We must try and find another way.
All right, I'll run and get some help.
You do not have to, little one.
Are you the hobgoblin, sir?
I am he.
I can see that you have found my hat.
Yes, sir.
It was on top of the mountain.
I think the...
That tree seems to be doing remarkably well.
However, away with thee.
Oh, my God.
Goodness be, I hope.
Oh, that really is some hat you have there, Mr. Hobgoblin.
I'm sorry, I troubled you.
We're just glad you came along when you did, Mr. Hobgoblin.
You're most kind, madam.
I don't suppose you'd have any uncommonly large rubies here, would you?
You finding my hat here must be an omen.
Here you are, Mr. Hobgoblin.
My husband, Moomin Papa, gave it to me.
It is fine indeed, and you are lucky to have it.
But I'm afraid it is not the King's Ruby I am looking for.
What do you mean, King's Ruby?
I have searched for it for hundreds of years, Moomin Mama.
I'm afraid I am obsessed by it and cannot find it anywhere.
Well, if we see it, we'll light a signal fire.
You are mosted kind, madam.
And I feel we shall meet again soon.
He's not bad for a Hobgoblin.
Come on, everybody. Let's start stacking up all this wood.
Okay, let's do it.
Come on.
And so the Hobgoblin's hat finally disappeared from Moomin Valley.
Moomin rather missed having an ever-ending supply of raspberry juice,
but his parents were more than happy that it had gone.
They love the laughter and they love the living, the movements.
Believing in sharing and caring and giving the movements.
They're always happy and always at play.
The movements are having fun day after day, the movements.
They love the laughter and they love the living, the movements.
Believing in sharing and caring and giving the movements.
They're always happy and always at play.
The movements are having fun day after day, the movements.
The movements.
I'll take you up to Moomin land.
You can fly just like a bird.
Sing that song ever.
There were the movements.
The sun is shining and Moomin Valley is enjoying its usual peace and tranquility.
Wait a minute.
Moomin Valley is enjoying its usual peace and tranquility.
Who's this?
Wait for me, Moomin!
Mama! Mama!
Are they ready?
Are what ready?
The pancakes!
Not yet. This hobgoblin wood doesn't seem to burn very well.
Aren't they cooking?
They won't be long. Have some lemonade while you're waiting.
Mama! Are the pancakes ready yet?
Oh well. Everything seems normal in the Moomin house.
I'm a dumbo, I'm a no-good-me-goboot-niny.
No, you're not, Snork. You're very clever.
No, I'm a failure of floppy, frightful fraud and a misfit.
But your landship was a success? Wasn't it?
Kid stuff!
Look, if you can make a ship that runs on land,
then I'm sure you can make one that flies. I believe in you.
Fat lot of good, that does me, Snork and Maiden.
You know, last night I thought,
I'd done it, a fly ship, then I looked at it again.
No good, no good. It was all wrong.
Wouldn't, couldn't fly at all.
Or how could someone so intelligent be such an idiot?
Oh dear, oh dear.
Well, they're ready. Go and tell the others little Mai.
All right, Moomin, Mama.
Where's Moomin and Snork Maiden?
Snork Maiden's fallen again.
Come on, Snork Maiden, cheer up.
I'm sure Snork will get over it.
Inventors always feel down in the dumps when something doesn't work.
Does Moomin, Papa, do you think?
He invents stories. Doesn't he, Moomin?
Well, where Moomin was, really?
Snork Maiden, do you want some pancakes?
Oh, yes, please, Moomin, Mama.
Moomin, go and get Papa.
I have a feeling he's writing his gut stuck again.
Okay, Mama.
Now, what's the matter, Snork Maiden?
Well, the sun returned to the eastern sky when morning came
and everything started to get lighter and lighter.
Oh dear, everybody knows that.
Even the stupidest retard, really.
I have absolutely no literary talent.
I'm an ignoramus son, a literate dilatant,
nor an illiterate idiot.
It's high time I gave up writing.
Oh.
Yes?
Papa?
Yeah, what is it, Moomin?
Uh, Mama said to tell you the pancakes are ready.
Well, I can't stop now. I'm being creative. I'll eat later.
Oh, really?
Yes, anything else?
Yeah, no. I thought you said something.
Moomin, wait, I'm coming.
That was really good, Moomin, Mama.
I'm going out.
I'm coming.
No, you can't.
Snuffkin and I are going on an adventure
and it could be dangerous.
Nice, Snuffkin.
Hello, Moomin. Didn't think you were coming.
Sorry, I'm late. What's that?
A leaf boat.
Look, it sails on the river just like a real one.
I bet it goes all the way down to the sea
and maybe even to some foreign lands.
Gosh, Snuffkin, I'd like to do that one day.
Let's go then, shall we?
Little Mai wanted to come, but I told her it was too dangerous.
Hmm, perhaps that wasn't the best thing to say.
Look.
I thought they could use a bit of fun.
Wait, Moomin.
Are we really going to climb up there?
Look, I don't think we can all go.
It'll just be Moomin and me.
I'm not climbing up there.
Well, I am.
Wouldn't you like to keep me company instead?
Look, there's a cave just a little bit further along this path.
Why don't you two girls wait for us there?
We won't be long.
But if you can walk to it, why on earth climb to it?
Ah, difficult for a girl to understand.
Well, I think boys are difficult to understand.
We're not sure we can reach it from above.
Well, we'll soon find out.
Are you coming with us, Snuff?
Oh, I think I'll guard the rear.
Protect the cave from below.
Oh, yeah.
Well, someone has to look after the girls.
Someone responsible.
Oh, my goodness, it's dark in there.
Let's go in, then.
I don't like the look of it.
We'd better stay out here.
You never know who might live in there.
Don't be silly.
No one lives in there.
That's what I don't like.
Yes, exactly a place with no one living in it is really scary.
I think we must be right above the cave here.
Maybe.
I can't find a hole, though.
Let's look a bit more over that way, Moomin.
Wow, I've never seen a shell like this before.
Oh, look at that one.
They must be worth a fortune.
Come over here and look, Little Mai.
Where's Little Mai, Snork maidens?
She went into the cave, Snuff.
Oh, no, she can't do that.
It might be dangerous.
Little Mai!
Come out!
No, you come in, scaredy cat.
You can't just go in like that.
You can't.
So tell me, how would you go in there and Mr. No at all?
Stay where you are.
We'll rescue you.
You're coming, too, aren't you, Snork maiden?
You can't stay here alone.
I suppose so.
What's that? Let's go.
Shall I hold your hand in case you get frightened?
Little Mai!
Where are you?
No!
Stop it, please. You're frightening Snork maiden.
Oh, really?
I thought I was frightening you.
Your voice is so shaky.
This is the way I sound normally.
Hey, be quiet.
No.
I can hear something.
Me, too.
Perhaps it's the wind.
No, Snork maiden.
It sounds like someone moaning.
You can't scare me like that.
No one lives here.
Who want to live here anyway?
It's dark and cold.
It's moment and snuffkin.
They've climbed down and we can hear their voices in the distance.
So we needn't worry.
Why would they be moaning?
No.
It's not them.
I'm going to go and investigate.
Don't, little Mai.
Please, please stop it.
Pull hard, Moomin.
Will this do?
Right, who's going first?
Me.
Okay, but please be careful.
I will.
Take it easy, Moomin.
There's no hurry.
Hey, are you alright, Moomin?
Yes, of course.
Oh, oh!
Ah, ah, ah!
Help me!
Woman! What's happened? Talk to me!
Woman! Are you all right?
Oh, I don't know. I think so.
My bottom's a little bit sore though.
I'm sure I heard somebody scream just now.
Well, the Himmelin was down here having a nap.
The Himmelin?
If this is another of your games, woman, I don't like it.
Mr. Himmelin, we were climbing down from the top.
We didn't know you were asleep.
That's not quite right. I wasn't asleep.
I wasn't the tall comfortable, you know.
Well, what were you doing here then?
Well, to tell you the truth, I really haven't been quite myself lately.
You haven't lost any more rare stabs, have you, Mr. Himmelin?
On the contrary, woman, I have them all.
Even the rarest, every single one.
Then what's wrong? That's good, isn't it?
I mean, my collection is complete.
No one in the world has a better stab collection than you have, Mr. Himmelin.
No, of course not mine is perfect. There isn't a stab I haven't got.
Rare ones, old ones, misprinted ones, I have them all.
I still don't understand.
There's no challenge, nothing to search for.
You're too young and you don't collect stamps.
Oh dear, me, dear me.
I'm beginning to understand.
He's not a collector anymore. He's got all the stamps he could ever want.
That's the trouble. It's not half as much fun.
That's why you're sad, isn't it, Mr. Himmelin?
Yes it is. Don't fun. Don't fun at all.
No, I understand. I can see why you're upset.
And me falling on top of you like that did it really help, did it?
Not exactly, Moomin.
Look who was taking a nap in the cave.
It's you, Mr. Himmelin.
So it must have been his snoring that we heard. What a noise he was making.
I'd never ever snore.
You certainly do.
Rubbish. Look, if you promise not to tell anyone, I'll take you to see something very special.
What is it?
Oh wait, it's not it.
It's not it.
I think it could be repaired.
Of course it could. Easy.
But you know you can't always tell. The keel doesn't look too good.
Yes, we could take it out to see a no time.
Sales got holes in it.
Hey, I can't find any owners.
You can pat a lost deer.
Look out, friends. It's going over.
Hey, hang on everybody.
I've lost my confidence and it makes me feel very unhappy.
Well, it can happen to anyone, you know.
Even to you?
Well, not much, of course.
Lucky you. I just don't know what to do.
How can I get it back? There must be a way.
It's hard to say.
Everybody's different, but with me it just happens.
Oh.
I don't think I'll ever invent anything again.
Perhaps I'll have a break from my memoirs, too.
Tea time? Oh dear, what's the matter with you, too?
You look a bit down in the dunes.
You know I might have been a bit overconfident.
Me, too, I think.
Oh, hi there.
Mom, what's the matter with you, too?
You look a bit down in the dunes.
You know I might have been a bit overconfident.
Mum and Mama! Mum and Papa!
There's no need to yell. We can hear you. Watch the matter, Sniff.
We found a boat on the beach. Come and have a look.
A shipwreck washed up on the shore.
It's not a wreck and it's got a white sail.
Oh.
We're going to repair it and then it'll be ours.
All right, I'm coming. Come on, Snork.
Let's take a look at this boat. It could be just the thing to cheer us both up.
Oh, it's got a sail, a white sail, you say.
That could be extremely interesting.
It's a sturdy little craft. It's nicely built.
Well designed.
She's abandoned. So does that mean we can keep her?
It seems to be in pretty good condition except for the hole in the bottom.
You know, maybe that's why she was abandoned here.
You could be right, Sniffkin.
Finders keepers, you guys. Of course it makes it our boat.
You'd have to wait to see if anyone claims it first, little mind.
What shall we do then, Papa?
Well, first things first, we must repair the hole and then tire up securely in case there's a storm.
Absolutely.
Then if the owner comes, we ought to give her back to him.
Mind you, he might know she's here.
So what are we going to do when we've repaired her?
It's bad for boats not to be yours, but we could sail the seven seas.
I'd be happy just to explore around here.
Don't worry, Snort Maiden. If we get big waves, we can sail between them, isn't that right?
Mom and Papa?
Well, in a way. Come on, let's get to work.
How about you, Snort? Will you help us?
Yes, of course.
Can I do anything for you, Mum and Papa?
Yes, if you'd like to, Mr. Himmelon.
Well, I'm afraid I'm not much of a builder, but if there is something I could do.
Well, let's get her out of the water first, shall we?
Yeah, mom!
And we'll need some big logs to go under her.
I think tin should be enough.
I'll be too soon. Let's go, prom!
Yes, you'll need to be safe to work on, so we'll want something strong to keep her upright as well.
And lots of tools.
I'll go home and get some, and I think we'll need a bucket and a shovel.
I'll come with you, help you, tools.
Yes, you go. I'll stay and keep guard in case the owner comes back.
Sleep well.
Man, the top sales.
What?
Are they all in bed, my dear?
Yes, dear, sleeping like logs.
I'm not surprised. They all work very, very hard today.
I can't wait until the boat's ready, and we can sail off somewhere.
My dear, we'll go anywhere in the world you like.
Anywhere at all, you've only got to say enough, we'll jolly-will-go.
It doesn't have to be far, dear.
Let's get to bed, too. We've got an early start of the morning.
Oh, intellectuals like me aren't used to this hard work.
Oh, I'm tired out, and I can hardly move.
Mama, I'd better put these tired legs to bed.
Good night, dear Moomin, Papa. This would be good for him, I think.
Oh, dear, oh, dear.
A perfect fit, if I may say so.
Well, now for the rest of her.
Right.
Look at me, Moomin. I'm doing the Tari.
I know, little Mai. I'm only doing where you can't reach.
Oh, all right, then.
Sniff you lazy land lever, bring me some more Tari.
Hey, no, I won't. Get it yourself, you lazy thing.
You wanted to do it.
I didn't want to carry Tari, though. And anyway, I'm doing the Tari.
I know, little Mai. I'm only doing where you can't reach.
Oh, all right, then. Sniff you lazy land lever, bring me some more Tari.
Tari, though. And anyway, I'm the painter.
Come on, hurry up.
Moomin, Mama, should I cut it all out?
Yes, please, not me.
Hey, feeling all right, Mr. Hemmielin?
Yes, thank you. You're fixing the boat very quickly.
Yeah, we sure are. I should be finished very soon.
Yes, I'm sure it will.
That's what I was afraid of. What shall I do then, Sniffkin?
Well, maybe you can start collecting something else. What you think?
Something else, like what?
Well, I don't know. Anything, really?
How about butterflies?
No, my second cousin does that, and he's a complete idiot.
It has to be something interesting.
Ornements? Ornements?
Yeah, you could collect those forever.
Not scientific.
Well, it's up to you, but I think you really ought to collect something, Mr. Hemmielin.
Mama! Mama!ed!
Mama, quick, hurry up. We're going to launch the new boat.
All right, wait for me. I'm coming.
The sail, you men, it is perfect, Mama. Come on!
Are you ready, everybody? I'll count to three, and then push as hard as you can.
One, two, three!
Oh!
And so, with their new boat finally repaired and uncleaned,
Moomin and the others began to get very excited about their trip around the world.
Even Snork and Mr. Hemmielin were in unusually high spirits.
All aboard for a trial run.
I've decided what I'm going to collect.
Flowers, look, here's my first sample. It's a sweet fryer, Rosa Robiganosa.
That's great. Good for you.
Snork, Maiden, I just had a new idea for my flying ship.
I'm certain it'll work this time.
Of course it will, Snork. Good luck.
I'd better get on. All right, start paddling, everyone.
We'll be back soon, my dear Moomin, Mama.
Take as long as you like, Papa. I'll prepare something cold for when you get back.
One, two, one, two.
Away, away, into the deep blue yonder.
They love the laughter, and they love the living, the Moomin's.
Believing in sharing and caring and giving the Moomin's.
They're always happy, and always at play.
The Moomin's are having fun day after day, the Moomin'sed.
They love the laughter, and they love the living, the Moomin's.
Believing in sharing and caring and giving the Moomin's.
They're always happy, and always at play.
The Moomin's are having fun day after day, the Moomin's.
The Moomin's, the Moomin's.
Here they are for one and all.
The Moomin's are about to call.
Come on and sit down here with me.
They're here for you on your TV. They are the Moomin's.
They are the Moomin's.
So come with me, give me your hand.
I'll take you up to Moomin land.
You can fly just like a bird.
Sing the best song ever.
They're with the Moomin's.
It was a lovely day, and Moomin, his family and friends,
decided to go for a trip in the boat they'd found washed up on the beach.
They didn't know where they were going, and thought it would be much more fun that way.
Mama, we're not going away forever, you know.
I hope not.
I don't think we'll need all these pots and pans.
It's best to be prepared at sea.
What do you mean?
Well, you'll only complain if you don't get a hot meal.
I never complain.
And you know how hungry the sea air made you all last timeed we went out on a boat.
You would have been glad of food then.
Hmm, you got to rough it a bit if you wanted adventure.
Yes, but it will be more fun with coffee and pancakes.
Aren't you too ready yet?
Hello, Moomin.
Hi, Snorkvagan.
Uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh.
Must you use that ladder?
I'm all right.
Moomin, you're going to hurt yourself one of these days.
It's good practice.
It's Snork coming with us.
He says he hasn't got time for sailing boats at the moment.
I'd much rather a real sailing boat than a paper flying ship any day.
Are Mama and Papa ready yet?
They're packing a path of kitchen.
Oh, it's too full.
Have we got to take all that with us?
Uh, Mama thinks it's better to be safe than sorry and she's usually right.
Tell me, Moomin.
Where exactly are we going?
We haven't decided yet.
That's right.
Wait and see.
Mr. Hamulin.
Have you found a rare plan for your collection yet?
Unfortunately not.
There are lots of these in Moomin Valley already.
Goodness.
Where are you taking all that?
We're going sailing.
How exciting, charting new seas and exploring desert islands.
Never know.
If I help
Captain the bridge!
Mount the yard arm!
Hankers away!
Sailors beware!
Slice the manbrace!
All hands on deck!
Full speed ahead!
Hey, Sniff.
Any sign of the movements?
Not yet.
It's a great day to go sailing.
I wonder where we're going.
I don't have any idea.
I don't actually like sailing.
Do you get sick?
Well, not really sick.
It's just that I can't swim.
And if it's rough, it frightens me and I panic a bit.
It looks like it's going to stay calm.
So don't worry.
Right.
That's the lot.
Now, all aboard.
Mama, little Mai, Sniffkin, Moomin, Snork Maiden,
and Mr. Hamulin.
It looks like it's going to stay calm.
So don't worry.
Right.
That's the lot.
Now, all aboard.
Mama, little Mai, Sniffkin, Moomin, Snork Maiden,
and Mr. Hamulin of course.
Isn't he a bit old for adventures?
Not at all.
No, Moomin Papa has promised to find a deserted island
where I shall search for rare plants.
No, no, no, no, no.
Come on, Sniff, hurry up.
There's no room.
Don't be silly, Sniff.
Of course there is.
It looks very full, almost thinking.
There's no way this boat could sink.
Now, come on, get him.
Oh.
Really?
I promise it'll be all right.
Won't it, Papa?
Well, if it stays like this, it will, Moomin.
I'll come next time.
Let's go, Moomin Papa.
He's just a scary cat.
We'll go without you then, Sniff.
I think that will be best.
Anyway, someone had better stay and look after Moomin House
and it might just as well be me.
That's very thoughtful of you.
There's a pancake on the kitchen table
that you can have for lunch.
Thank you, Moomin Papa.
Have a nice trip.
I wish Sniff had come.
He's a big softy.
Well, he's not very good at swimming
and he does eat rather a lot.
This is a life, isn't it, Mama?
It certainly is, dear.
Oh, look, not a breath of wind.
Shall I start rolling, Papa?
Yes, you'd better get Sniffkin to help you.
Aye-aye, Captain.
It's hardly moving.
You'll have to do better than that.
We're doing our best.
You too, Papa.
You too would be useless as galley slaves.
It's good that we're not then, isn't it?
So then, what's your excuse?
It's not easy rolling against the tide.
You try it.
No, dear, at this rate, I should be lucky to find one rare plant.
Well, Mr. Hamlin, you could always try collecting some seaweed instead.
There's plenty of that.
I have heard tales that if you whistle,
those who perished at sea will send you a wind.
Land! Hoi! Look, Moomin, Papa!
That's too small to be any good.
You're right.
Hey, look, Papa. We're moving again.
The tide's turned and the winds up.
What a beautiful island!
And a perfect place to land, too.
Oh, I bet this place has got some rare plants.
We'll be careful.
We'll be careful when you explore.
There could be wild animals there.
Now, if someone will go and collect some wood,
I'll get a fire started.
I bet none of you will say no to coffee and pancakes.
Watch me, you land lovers.
I'll go and pull the boat ashore.
Hmm, I suppose you were right.
This will come in handy.
As I said, Papa, it's always better to rough it
with a little bit of luxury.
I wonder if we're the first to set foot on the island.
Thank you, children.
Is there anything else you want us to do?
No, I don't think so.
Is it okay if I go explore the island?
Of course, off you go.
Coming, snort, Maida.
I'll stay and help Moomin Mama with the cooking.
Mama, you said we needed firewood.
Is this enough?
My goodness for a lot.
You know, I don't think anyone lives on this island.
I haven't seen anyone unless they're hiding in the bushes.
I've seen someone.
Oh yeah?
Who?
Well, they weren't very big.
What do you mean, this big?
Well, same as me.
What did they look like?
Sort of white and ghostly and not very friendly looking
either, Moomin.
Well, you probably just thought you saw something a little mic.
I did see them.
I did too.
Keep your hair on.
I'm not saying you didn't see anything.
Goodness, this is magnificent.
Oh, what a find.
And what's this?
Well, well, well.
I've never seen such rare and beautiful plants.
Oh.
Well, what's this?
Goodness, it's a perimeter.
Now, let's see.
Rain and storm.
Probably broken.
Oh, hello.
Who are you?
Oh, I see.
This is your perimeter, isn't it?
Now, watch it.
Mind you don't travel on those flowers, will you?
Oh, no, no, no.
They're coming to get me.
Don't go away.
I think what little my saw was a hatty fatter.
They're not ghosts.
Are they snuffkin?
No, they look kind of like it,
but they're really harmless enough, Moomin.
Oh, leave me alone.
Oh, dear.
What on earth was that?
It sounded like Mr. Himulet.
Don't get away.
Oh, help me, please.
That's it.
That's what I saw.
It's Mr. Himulet.
Help!
Get me down.
Why are they after you, Mr. Himulet?
What'd you do to them?
I don't know.
I just tapped on this post,
and asked them to be careful with the flowers.
They seem a bit angry to me.
Oh, then I tapped on them.
Oh, no, no, no.
I just tapped on this post,
and asked them to be careful with the flowers.
Is that ours?
They seem a bit angry to me.
Oh, then I tapped on them.
Oh, then I tapped on the morometer
to check the weather, and they came at me.
Well, I don't think it's a flower's a mad about.
Maybe they thought you were trying to steal the morometer.
I don't want it to keep it.
My goodness, I'm collecting flowers, not the morometers.
Well, hang on.
I can't hang on much longer.
Hurry, please.
They don't look so easily frightened.
No, now let me think.
Hurry, I'm slipping.
I've got it, Mr. Himulet.
The hadifatners can't see or hear very well,
but they are very sensitive.
We'll have to try and frighten them.
I suggest you shake the post as hard as you can.
Like this.
Harder.
Harder, Mr. Himulet.
Look, they can feel the ground moving.
Keep going, Mr. Himulet.
I'm getting really tired.
They're not going.
Are you sure this will work?
You can stop now, Mr. Himulet.
Mr. Himulet.
Hey, are you all right, Mr. Himulet?
What is disgusting creatures?
I have a good mind to take their precious barometer.
I don't think that's such a good idea.
It's no good anyway, it's not working.
How do you know that, Mr. Himulet?
Look, it's a beautiful day, isn't it?
According to this barometer, it should be pouring down with rain.
This is the way to explore real home cooking.
It just takes a little thought.
And woman papa is always prepared, aren't you dear?
Double zero, it can't get any lower than that.
What does that mean?
If it was working, it would mean being for a terrible storm.
I think the reading might be right after all, Mr. Himulet.
See the way the sky is darkening.
Look at those storm clouds.
We better go before it's too late.
But there won't be time to get home.
We'll be shipwreck moving, papa.
Surely there's still time.
We don't want to go back to moving valley yet.
We've only explored half the island.
Besides, you never know what we might find, Snort Maiden.
I wanted to get my hands on those happy fat nurse.
That's the last thing I wanted to do, little mind. The very last.
I think we ought to leave now.
What do you think, mama?
Well, you're the captain, dear. It's up to you.
So I am. Now, let me think.
All right, we'll stay.
Oh, can we?
Yes, but we must put the tent up before it starts raining.
What tent?
Always be prepared. That's my motto.
You're very clever to think of everything.
First, we must lower the sails and pull the boat up so that she's out of harm's way.
Yes, but we must put the tent up before it starts raining.
What tent?
Always be prepared. That's my motto.
The boat up so that she's out of harm's way.
That should do it.
Well done, everybody. It should be safe here.
Now, hurry with the tent. The storm's nearly here.
Are you all right, Mr. Himulan?
You stay here and rest.
We'll manage without you.
I am a bit tired.
You get your breath back first, but don't forget to tie the boat to that tree before you come up.
It looks bad. A real humdinger.
You can trust me.
Right, let's get that tent up.
Oh, dear, what a day.
Oh, what's this here?
Oh, yes.
Well, fans, see that I've never seen one of these before.
It's not good.
What's happening?
It's coming really fast. Look at the rain over the sea.
We're going to get soaked if we stay here.
Just a minute.
But we'll get wet.
I know, but it's so exciting.
Things which you have no control over.
You can see this great big storm coming towards you.
And you can't do anything about it.
No.
You have to time it just right.
When to make a run for shelter, you mean?
I knew you'd understand.
I wonder what the Hattie Fatterners are doing.
Waiting for the thunderstorm.
Why?
Because they get energy from the electricity and the lightning.
Really?
That's it.
Come on.
I've never seen rain like this.
I've never seen enough, Momen.
You're dressed, Mom.
I know.
It's all right.
I'll look after you.
I know.
That was a close one.
Too close.
I think it's over, Snork Maiden.
What a find I made today.
What you find It was I made today.
What a find Hai.
What a find I made today.
What the see my time is.
What you can do is wait until it's blown itself out.
But what if the waves are so high that your boat is caught up
and washed out to sea?
That is a different story altogether.
What if the waves are so high that your boat is caught up?
They're always happy and always at play.
The movements are having fun day after day.
The movements.
They love the laughter and they love the living.
They're leaving and sharing and caring and giving the movements.
They're always happy and always at play.
The movements are having fun day after day.
The movements.
They are the movements.
So come with me, give me your hand.
I'll take you up to a moment land.
You can fly just like a bird.
Sing the bass song ever.
There were the movements.
The movements.
Papa, I think that rope is getting loose.
Okay, movement.
You'd better have a look before this wind has the whole tent down.
The eye, Captain.
A sudden storm has hit the hafifat in this island.
The movement, Papa, has decided that it would be far safer to stay the night on the island.
So they put up the tent and moored the boat.
This will show us what the weather's up to.
That's as long as it's still working.
I'm sure it's going to die down really soon.
Oh, wake up, Mr. Hemelon.
When the storm clears, we must give this barometer straight back to the hafifat in this.
Oh, I quite fancy keeping it myself to remind me of the island.
You know, it seems to work after all.
But Mr. Hemelon, that'll only remind you of the horrible hafifat in this.
What about all the tons of plants you found?
That surely is going to be enough?
Yes, I know, but there was only really one special flower amongst all those plants, and I nearly missed that one.
Look, isn't it a beauty?
I discovered it as I was about to tie up the boat.
Oh, woman, Papa.
Yes, Mr. Hemelon.
You know, when you all went to put up the tent, you told me to tie up the boat so she was safe.
Yes, of course.
Well, I'm not sure if I did.
Not sure at all.
Please try to remember, Mr. Hemelon.
I can't. It's all very unclear in my mind.
If the boat's not here, we'll be stuck on the island forever and ever.
Oh, we pulled it well ashore, so it should be okay, but we'd better check on it as soon as we can.
I'll go have a look.
Quickly, moment. Be careful.
I remember I was just going to do it when I spotted this flower.
Just by a rocket was whole dear.
Woman.
Boy, that was close.
Tie it to the tree and make sure it's tight.
That should do it.
Just in time.
You know, the waves must have been huge to reach this far.
Well, we saved the boat.
Yes.
Well, this storm will be over soon.
Is everything okay?
Yep. Everything's fine.
Oh, thank goodness. So we're not stranded after all.
Huh? No.
We needn't have worried.
I'm very sorry. Really, I am.
Are you all right, Snort Maiden? Now I am.
According to this, the storm is blowing over now and it should stop raining soon.
Well, the wind seems to have dropped.
Oh, good. All that thunder and lightning is so noisy.
Ah, right. I think I'll just go for a bit of a walk before I settle down for the night.
But it's much too dark to see anything.
The fresh air will do me good.
Oh, ah! That's a good idea. I could do with some fresh air myself.
Wait for me. I'll come too.
Let me increase the water.
There's still there hundreds of them all glowing.
The hatty fat nurse.
They're waiting for us.
The lightning must have recharged them.
Look at them all. I wonder what they want, Snort Maiden.
Such a heavy storm would have given them lots and lots of energy.
Gosh, they're ready for anything.
They're not coming any closer.
They seem fairly friendly. Maybe they just want to see what we look like.
No, I know what they're here for.
Oh, what's that, Snuffkin?
It's their barometer, Moomin Papa.
They know we've got it and they've come to get it back from us.
Yes, I think you're right, Snuffkin.
Mr. Hamilton?
I do think you'd better give it back to them.
Do I have to?
Yes, of course. After all it is there isn't there are a lot of them.
Look, why don't you take it out to them now?
You know the barometer does belong to the Mr. Hamilton.
Oh, dear, dear. Give it to me.
Let me do it, Papa.
Well done, my boy.
You must be careful, my dear.
Don't worry, Mama.
My boy isn't he brave.
I think this is what you've come for.
Here you are. You can have it back now.
Moomin!
Moomin! Are you all right, Moomin?
I'll tell you something. I'm real glad there's no electricity where we live.
Oh, they didn't hurt you, did they?
Ah! Go away!
They were alone.
Are you all right, Snuffkin?
I'll tell you something. I'm real glad there's no electricity where we live.
Oh, they didn't hurt you, did they?
Ah! Go away!
Are you all right, Snuffkin?
What did he do to you?
Just a bit of shock, that's all.
What's that funny smell?
Oh, my god, it's your hair.
What do you mean?
What's happened to it?
Oh, no, my hair, Mama, Mama!
Where's your mirror? Oh, Mama!
Oh, look at what those wicked, hatty fat owners have done.
It's here in my handbag somewhere.
Hurry, Mama! I must see what's happened to my hair!
Here you are, dear.
Look at me! Look at me! It's awful!
It's horrible! It's horrible!
Don't worry, we'll put some magic ointment on and it'll come back all lovely and curly.
I don't want nasty curly hair.
I want my long, beautiful hair like it was before.
You know, it really doesn't matter to me, Snuffkin.
God, oh, good. I hope that's the last we see of them.
Oh, dear, what's happened to Snuffkin?
My hair, my hair, where's my hair?
Snuffkin!
Wake up, woman. We've got to hurry.
I wonder where they're going.
Perhaps they're saving a way to a secret island.
Somewhere very far away from here where they can live happily on their own together.
Gosh, Snuffkin, they're really weird.
Well, it depends on how you look at it, woman.
They probably think we're a bit strange, too.
Snuffkin, you're really horrible. You knew I wanted to see them.
Come on, you were fast asleep, snoring your head off.
That wasn't me snoring that was Mr. Him you went.
All right, if you say so.
Well, I hope that's the last I'll see of them.
Me, too. That's a very pretty scarf, Snort Maidum.
Yes, it is, isn't it?
Can we go exploring, Mama?
I don't see why not.
It looks as though it'll be a nice day and there'll be lots of exciting things washed up by the storm.
Oh, that'll be fun. Let's look for the other side of the island.
What a good idea. I might discover some more plants.
Mr. Himmelin, hurry up, sir. Or it will be dark before we get there.
You go on, Momen. I just want to have a better look at these flowers.
Yes, all right.
Very interesting.
Just think we could find all sorts of things lying on the sand.
I hope it's secrets, sunken treasure.
Well, let's hope it's not sunken anymore.
I expect there'll be lots and lots of treasures from shipwrecks and things like that.
But I find it before you.
Oh, no, you won't.
Look at all this. It's all mine.
I'm going to die, really.
What's that over there?
It's quite shallow right here.
Well, there must be something admit it.
Oh, dear. It's empty.
I think I found something here.
Little lie, little lie.
What's the matter?
Come and see these beautiful shells I have.
I'm too busy hunting for treasure to bother with shells.
Hey, what's this?
What?
Oh, look at this one.
I've got a real collection here.
Got a lovely mama's garden.
Wow, watch that.
What?
I can't find any as nice as yours.
Don't be in such an awful hurry, little lie.
Snark maiden, snark maiden.
Look, look what I found.
A proper treasure.
Look.
Oh, there's snow inside of it.
I found it in a cave.
What is it?
What's this?
It's a ship telescope.
You can see for miles with it.
I'll give it to Papa.
It's better than anything I got.
Hey, everybody.
I found something.
Come on up and have a look.
I wish I could find something interesting.
Have you found some buried treasure?
What a big lady.
Is she dead?
It's made of wood, Snark maiden.
It's a figurehead from a ship.
She's like a queen.
Ha, she hasn't got any legs though.
Why don't we put her on the front of our boat?
Nah, it's much too heavy.
It must have come from a ship that was wrecked.
And Sank had seen?
Perhaps it did.
And all hands were lost.
I want to take it home.
What would you do with it?
Use her to frighten people away.
Help! Somebody help me!
That's old Mr. Himmelin.
Gosh, I hope it's not more haddy fattiners.
Someone help, please.
We're coming.
Woman, why do you like this old figurehead so much?
You're staring at her.
She's not all that special, you know?
Yes, I know.
She's not even real.
Only made of wood.
Do you like her eyes?
Or is it her hair?
Just because I haven't got any?
Nearly there, just a bit further.
Come on, snuff it for me.
For her to want.
You're very heavy, Mr. Himmelin.
Thank you, snuff kid.
You saved my life.
Oh!
Boy, how'd you end up there, Mr. Himmelin?
One minute, I was looking for plants the next I'd fallen right into that hole.
I think you'd be safe for collecting stamps, Mr. Himmelin.
Oh no, it's not here. Where is it?
What is it now?
Tell me.
Make a move and preserve me.
Calm down, Mr. Himmelin. Tell me what's the matter?
My sample box, my sample box, oh my goodness.
You didn't leave it in the hole, did you?
Yes, that's what I'm trying to tell you, oh dear.
All my precious samples, I'm so silly.
Oh, snuff kid.
Oh, snuff kid, would you mind?
Okay, anything for some peace.
Oh dear boy, you are wonderful.
You shall have one of my rarest plants as a reward.
And he, you shall, I shall choose a magnificent one for you.
Thank you very much, Mr. Himmelin.
Gosh, you're one of her movements.
Oh, there you are. What have you been up to?
He can't take his eyes off that silly wooden lady. He just dares at her.
Really?
I do not. I just think she has a very beautiful face.
Well, woman, now that you're here, I could really do with your help.
What do you want, snuff kid?
Mr. Himmelin dropped his box of samples down this hole and I'm going to try and get it.
I didn't drop it, I fell in the hole and just forgot it when stuff can pull me out.
You're a bit absent-minded, Mr. Himmelin.
No, I'm not, I can remember every Latin name of every single plant, you know.
Okay, I'll go down, woman, but you'll have to help me get back up.
Okay.
I'll help you too, now be careful.
Can you see it yet, snuff kid?
I'm not down at the bottom yet.
Oh, forgive me, I'm sorry.
I found it.
Wonderful, tell me, are the plants all right?
You can check them yourself in a minute.
Are you all right, snuff kid?
Wait a minute, I found something else.
Oh, look!
There's the boat.
It's Mom and Mom and Mom and Papa.
Hello.
It's gold.
Hello, we've been hunting treasure.
Go and get Mom and Papa, I found gold.
Boy, oh boy, I wonder how much there is.
Mum and Papa will know.
Well, Mum and Papa, what should we do with all this beautiful gold?
It would look lovely in the garden, don't you think?
With all the shells that the snorkemaiden found, they'll look good in amongst the roses.
What do you think, Mama?
I'm sure they will, Papa.
I'm sure they will.
Mum, she's only a stupid, legless doll.
You can have my bowl full of snorkemaiden.
No thanks.
Well, I'll look after it for you.
I can pretend it's my treasure.
Oh.
And that was the end of their first adventure in the new boat.
Mum and Papa decided that it was much more fun to set off without maps and sea charts.
You never know where you might end up.
They love the laughter and they love the living the movements.
Believing in sharing and caring and giving the movements.
They're always happy and always at play.
The movements are having fun day after day.
The movements.
They love the laughter and they love the living the movements.
Believing in sharing and caring and giving the movements.
They're always happy and always at play.
The movements are having fun day after day.
The movements.
Here they are for one and all.
The movements are about to come.
Come on and sit down here with me.
There for you on your TV they are the movements.
They are the movements.
Don't come with me give me your hand.
I'll take you up to a moment land.
You can fly just like a bird.
Sing that song ever.
There were the movements.
Da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da
da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da no da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da
Oh, oh!
Moments!
Hello, is love for me?
A letter for the ladies!
He's gonna fall in this time.
What?
Come on.
This way, towards me.
Come on!
Oh!
I got him!
Did you dig that hole?
Yeah!
No, weren't, didn't it?
All right.
Who's responsible for this?
Are you all right?
Did you dig this hole, young woman?
Of course not.
Who was it then?
Hi, you, I should have known.
Come here, you just wait.
Uh, hold on, Mr. Postman.
Can I help my letter, please?
Just do wait.
Here's the letter, mama.
Hmm?
A goodness, a letter.
I think it's from mumble.
Oh, really?
Where's little my, moment?
Well, she's um...
So, who's this letter from?
It's from my sister mumble, isn't it?
Oh, should I know?
She went on holiday to get away from me.
I bet she's coming back because she's missed all the fun.
She'd stay away if she had it in a sense.
This is the third time I've fallen into a hole.
Yes, I know.
But this is only the first time I've seen you do it.
What a horrible little child you are.
Artite!
Whoop!
Whoop, that was close!
Go on, fall off!
Whoop!
Mumble says that she's coming back.
She feels that she's ready to cope with little my again.
Oh, that's good news, moment, mama.
I think that we should go and give her house a good clean.
Have you told little my now mumble's coming?
She'll be able to go home.
No, I expect the postman is still chasing her around the garden.
Don't tell me why I don't want to know.
Mama!
Is the letter from mumble?
What does she have to say?
Is she coming home?
And a few days later, mumble returned to Mum and Valley.
Now, mumble is a lot bigger and prettier than little my.
And what's more, she's a lot quieter.
That's Mum and Valley!
Over there!
It's not full of creepy crawlies, is it?
Not as far as I knowed.
Is there a house over there?
Maybe they have food, let's go.
Oh, that's Mum and House.
Are you going to Mum and Valley, too?
Yes, we thought we would.
That's nice, so am I.
We can go together.
Your suitcase looks very heavy.
Would you like a hand with me?
Oh, no!
Okay.
Are they nice to people that live in that house?
Yes, they are.
Could we stay there?
I'm sure you can.
My little sister is staying with them.
Follow me, I know the way, shall we go?
What's the matter?
Nothing.
We'll follow you.
All right.
Mum!
Hello.
How are you?
Fine, you.
Fine.
Do you have a nice rest without me?
Come on, everybody's waiting to see you.
Oh, by the way, I'm at two very small strangers
who said they were coming here.
Coming here, mumble?
Yes, they're both the same size as little mine.
Both a bit odd and they're carrying a very large suitcase.
Right, I'd better make them up a small double bed then.
Thanks for the tea.
Now, are you ready to come home with me now, little mine?
No, not yet.
We've got to go home and tidy the house.
It hasn't been aired for the whole winter.
It's all right, mumble.
I cleaned and swept the floors the other day
and opened all the doors and windows.
Thank you very much.
It must have been a relief to be asleep most of the time
with the mice been staying with you.
They said they haven't been bored once since we woke up
and we've had a really good time together.
Isn't that right, Mum?
Bye now.
Well, well.
What does well, well, me, Papa?
Just that I might be able to hear myself think again now.
I know what you mean.
You're not thingin' me.
No, it's your turn to be great.
What if they scream when they see us?
But the lady told us they were friendly thingin' me.
Oh, sorry.
Go on, do it.
Excuse me.
Oh, oh, oh, oh.
Now, what's the matter with you, too?
Don't forget your suitcase, will you?
It's alright, don't be frightened.
I won't eat you.
I'm the police inspector here.
Been in the valley for years.
Police?
Oh, no.
We're not thieves.
Well, I'm all in the suitcase.
Oh, no.
We're under a bed.
Well, nobody said that you did.
Then you haven't come to arrest us.
Have you?
Of course I haven't.
I've come to see the movement family.
It is our suitcase.
It is.
Of course it is.
Now, have you come to see the movements, too?
Hello?
Oh, oh, oh.
Oh, there you are.
I thought it was you.
Are you expecting these two guests, Mum and Mama?
I think so.
And they've got a suitcase, so they must be staying.
That's nice.
You will stay, won't you?
Is it alright with you?
Of course it is.
I'm Mum and Mama.
I'm Dany, and this is my friend Bob, Mum and Mama.
You're welcome.
Come in and make yourselves at home.
I think it'll be okay, Dany.
Careful!
He must have dropped it!
Hi!
They are a bit strange, aren't they?
Yes, definitely.
So, what can I do for you today, Inspector?
Oh, well, I heard that Mumble was back from holiday, so...
Yes, that's right.
Oh, do you want...
Are you here now?
No, Inspector.
I'm afraid she's gone home with little Mai.
Oh, right.
I have to keep an eye on things, you know?
Very important.
Who goes away?
Who comes back?
Well, I'll say goodbye, Dan, Mum and Mama.
I do believe he's fallen for Mumble.
But has she fallen for him?
I wonder.
What are the new guests doing?
Looking scared, mostly.
Who one...
Do one...
Here you are.
I've emptied these drawers for you.
There should be enough room.
Thank you, Norman.
Where should we put this suitcase?
Let's see.
In this drawer?
Look, there's a good place to hide, too.
Oh, look at this.
They made such a pretty bad for us.
I like the movements.
They didn't scream at all.
You still gotta be careful, though.
No.
We've had some very strange people staying at our house,
but I think these two are really weird.
Well, they're Northerners.
I guess so.
With names like Thingamy and Bob.
And that suitcase.
They look a lot like fugitives to me, Snuffkin.
And perhaps they're dangerous criminals on the run.
Do you want to see them?
Yeah, I wouldn't mind, Mum.
Norman?
Ah, there you are.
Where are they doing now?
No idea.
I couldn't hear anything, so they must be asleep.
We think they're fugitives, Mum and Papa.
They're probably on the run from the law.
Well, they are a bit funny, but they're suitcase.
Gold coins.
Stole and state secrets.
We better hide all the matches, Papa.
Public enemies, numbers, and two,
but they don't look like it, though.
How about some tea, Snuffkin?
Sniff?
Yes, please.
Any cakes as well?
Oh.
Thingamy?
Oh, no.
This look is gone, too.
What am I going to do?
Oh, oh, oh, oh.
You wake up, ready?
Oh.
What a nerfie you're doing under the bed.
It's the safest place.
Something's about to happen, though.
I can feel her coming.
That's what woke me up.
Don't be silly.
She can't know we're here.
She can.
And I know she'll be here to hide.
Well, it's very windy tonight, moment.
You know, chilly, too, don't you think?
Oh, hello.
Did you sleep well?
Would you like some tea?
Hey, so that's them.
Don't worry.
These are good friends of mine.
Let me introduce you.
Sniff and snuff can.
And what's the matter?
She's coming.
Yes, she is.
Well, who is my dear?
The girl.
Yes ... she's terrible.
Who?
You know who she is?
Yes.
I've never seen her.
But I've heard she's a scary monster, all right.
Scary monster?
And this, uh, grope is after you.
Yes, she is.
Now, don't you worry.
She'll think twice before she tangles with me.
Will she?
If she's a scary monster?
Monster or not.
If you're a guest in Moomin House, nothing will harm you.
Right, everyone.
Lock all the doors and you two go to your room.
Thank you, Moomin Papa.
Nobody is going to get in here.
Well said.
To Am's family, to Am's.
Ready for more tea, anyone?
What's the matter?
We're going to be attacked by a huge scary monster.
Heavens.
You'd better get the frying pan, Mama.
Oh dear.
All right.
Has everyone got a weapon?
Oh.
Well, it's midnight.
I don't know.
It's midnight.
I don't believe in that stupid grog.
I hope you're right.
She's coming.
She's here.
Yes, she's very close now.
I'm going home.
This is silly.
We can't wait up all night.
Besides, I'm getting very sleepy.
It's up to you.
Right.
I'm going, man.
Moomin Papa.
Watch your back.
Yes.
Keep in the open.
You guys are only trying to frighten me.
Well, it won't work.
She's here.
No, she's not.
There are no such things as monsters.
Just a trap blowing the candles out.
Hmm.
You see?
There's nobody there.
Well, in that case, there's nothing to stop you going home, Sniff.
Do you think I'm scared?
You're making it up.
Come on, admit it.
There aren't any grog.
Not at all.
You see?
There's no one here at all.
Uh-huh.
Oh, be careful.
Watch what you're doing.
It's here.
Where?
Right outside that door.
Big and black and horrible.
Right.
No, don't open it.
She'll get in.
Come on, everybody.
Well, there's nobody here, Sniff.
Are you sure?
I can't see anything.
Oh, I must have scared.
That silly old grog away, moment.
That will teach her to come sniffing around here, all right?
No, that she is.
Mm-hmm.
Mrs. Groke, we'd like you to go home.
Now you just go on.
You're upsetting our guests.
And you're freezing my roses.
Yes, you've been bullied.
I'm sorry, but you really must leave.
Please go before I count to ten.
One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, nine and a half.
All right.
What?
Hey, are you all right, moment?
Look at the ground.
It's all frozen.
That's a Groke's voice.
It's cold.
Isn't it?
I don't think she'll be back tonight.
Let's all go in and have a hot drink.
The Groke didn't come back that night.
But what did she want in movement house?
And will she return perhaps another night when they're all asleep?
They love the laughter and they love the living, the movements.
Believing is sharing and caring and giving the movements.
They're always happy and always at play.
The movements are having fun day after day.
The movements.
They love the laughter and they love the living, the movements.
Believing in sharing and caring and giving the movements.
They're always happy and always at play.
The movements are having fun day after day.
The movements.
Here they are for one and all.
The movements are about to come.
Come on and sit down here with me.
They're for you on your TV.
They are the movements.
So come with me, give me your hand.
I'll take you up to a movement land.
You can fly just like a bird.
Sing that song ever.
There were the movements.
With all the excitement of that night,
Sniff decided not to go home and was sharing movement's bed.
Snuffkin, as always, preferred to sleep in his tent.
You remember what happened?
The horrible grok coming after thingamy and bob and everything freezing?
For a moment, however, the night wasn't quite over yet.
Mommy, papa! Help me!
The grok is after me!
I can't run anymore!
Why am I on the floor?
Sniff?
Morning, mama.
Good morning, moving. Is Sniff up yet?
You're joking.
Where is the thingamy and bob?
It's not stirred yet.
The poor things are tired out.
Papa's not still asleep, is he?
No, he's looking at my rose bushes.
Are they okay, papa?
No, frozen to death and look.
What?
That's where she was standing over there where the grass is dead.
She must have been real cold to freeze the roses.
What a shame! They were very pretty.
There's not much left to them now. We'll have to grow some new ones.
I dreamed that she was chasing me, papa.
Oh, don't worry, moment. I think she's only after thingamy and bob.
So there are not fugitives from justice, after all?
I have a feeling that they would prefer that moment.
Aren't thingamy and bob coming down?
Yes, if they could have breakfast in their room, if you didn't mind.
Well, what did they tell you?
What?
About why the groke is chasing them.
Oh, they just looked terrified and wouldn't say anything about her at all.
You know, we really ought to find out why.
Yes, you're right.
Moment, mama, why don't you take their breakfast up and see if they'll find out why?
Moment, mama, why don't you take their breakfast up and see if they'll tell you anything?
If any of us can get it out of the meal can.
Who's that?
It's only me. I've brought you both a nice breakfast.
Well, what did they say?
It seems that the groke is after the suitcase, not them.
I wonder what's in it, perhaps they've stolen her mummy as well.
And they also said that it did use to belong to her.
Oh dear, if they've stolen it, they're not.
Oh dear, if they've stolen it.
I don't know about that.
I asked them how they got it, but they wouldn't say another word.
Well, this is too much.
We could be harboring criminals.
I know they don't look like it, but you never know, do you?
You can ask the groke.
Don't shout.
No, that's no good.
We don't want to come back here most definitely.
Let's ask the police inspector to question them.
We don't want to get the police involved.
Well, you'll suggest something, Anne.
Quit shouting, sniff.
Look, why don't you just wait for them to tell you a moment?
I know it seems strange, but I've noticed that if you pretend not to be interested,
people can't wait to tell you those secrets.
They told Mama about the suitcase, but they wouldn't say anything to Papa.
You know something, Moomin. They might open up to Snork Maiden.
She's someone more their own age.
You could be right.
Hey, Snork Maiden.
Where are you going?
Moomin house.
I'll come with you.
But I thought you were living there.
I was until mumble came back yesterday.
How is she?
Bossy, and she snores, too.
Moomin.
Snork Maiden.
Where are you off to?
Well, I was just on my way to see you.
Oh, that's so nice, and I've come to see you, Moomin.
I brought you a little present, Moomin.
A present for me.
Yes, and it's very beautiful.
What is it?
Something you must never break or lose.
I promise I won't.
There you are.
Thank you.
Go on, open it.
Oh, what a beautiful shell.
I spent all of yesterday on the beach searching for it just for you.
Look, we can see ourselves in it.
So we can.
Thank you very much, Snork Maiden.
It's my heart, and I want you to look after me.
Oh, I will, Snork Maiden.
I will.
I'll think of you whenever I look at it.
I'm Moomin.
I promise you that I'll always kiss the shell before I go to sleep.
It will be my most precious treasure.
Apart from me.
So what shall I do?
Take them for a walk?
Yes, but take your time and don't rush them.
I'll let them cry on my shoulder.
Yes, and try and talk to them as well, though.
I feel very important and a little bit nervous, too.
Have some tea first.
Thank you, Moomin, Mama.
Ah!
We don't need your help, little Mai.
Ha, that's what you think.
I'd be able to weedle out their secrets.
It's not an interrogation.
We only want to talk to them, you know.
So you can weedle out their secrets.
I'll be very quiet.
Little Mai, have you ever managed to be very quiet?
Not really, but there's only one way to find out.
You must let me go with Snork Maiden.
No, this situation needs a tender understanding, Moomin.
That's me, exactly!
You ready?
I suppose so.
Hello, it's Moomin.
Can I talk to you for a minute?
Hello?
This is Snork Maiden.
She's a very good friend of mine.
Hello, I'm very happy to meet you both.
She's very tender and understanding,
and she'd like to talk to you.
Can she come in?
Well, if she has to, Moomin.
Come in, Mai.
You pee, you pee, you pee.
It's very beautiful, a perfect heart shape.
I've never seen anything like it, Moomin.
Would you like one, Mama?
No, my dear.
There should only be one shell like this.
Then would you keep it somewhere safe for me?
Well, Snork Maiden.
I'm sure Snork Maiden will get it out of him.
I do hope so. I think they like it anyway.
I have a feeling in my bones that Groke will be back tonight.
Oh.
If we could find out why she's after them, we'd know what to do.
Mama won't have any garden left if that monster comes back every night.
Moomin.
Well done, Snork Maiden.
Little Mai.
Oh no, she'll ruin everything if we don't stop her.
If you interfere, little Mai, I'll never forgive you.
What, interfere? Me? Never.
Look, let's just leave it up to Snork Maiden now, little Mai.
You'll need me if Snork Maiden's not tender and understanding enough.
Hey, Moomin.
So, how is Snork Maiden getting on?
Taking them for a stroll? Where are they?
If we were narrow.
Papa, if we get much closer.
And the last thing we want is for them to see us.
Looks like I'll have to go and talk to them. You're all too big.
I'll come back later and tell you what they said.
No, don't. You'll upset Snork Maiden.
You're the one who's upsetting her.
All right. Can I ask you again about the suitcase?
Yes.
Does that suitcase belong to you or is it the groaks?
No.
Let's try it another way. Who's is that suitcase?
It's yours, it's yours.
But you told Moomin Mama that it wasn't yours. It was the groaks.
Yes, we did.
Do you mind if I ask you one more time?
Please do.
Right. Here we go.
Now, all I want is a simple yes or no.
Is that suitcase yours or not?
No, yes.
Oh, take your time, Snork Maiden.
And don't rush them, he said.
What was that, Snork Maiden?
Look, I'm sorry, but can I ask you again?
Yes, as many times as you want.
Thank you. This is the very last time.
So please tell me the truth.
Now then, the suitcase.
Yes.
You know which one?
Does it belong to you?
Yes, it does.
So it's not the groaks.
Yes, it is not the groaks.
At last, we're getting somewhere, praise the booble.
We're very happy for you.
Snork Maiden is really having to work hard.
I wouldn't have, I'd scare them into talking.
You should have let me go.
Yeah, but we wanted someone gentle.
Snork Maiden is nice.
Everybody in this house is nice.
Do you think they'd let us stay here forever?
Of course.
If we can keep away from the grog.
It took a long time, but in the end they trusted me.
And now we're good friends.
Who wouldn't trust you and want to be good friends?
Thank you.
It wasn't easy, though. They kept speaking together and I got rather muddled.
But they did tell me somehow.
Rather muddled.
I told you guys, you should have let me do it.
Oh, I'm afraid I didn't get very much, though.
I knew you wouldn't.
So, what did you find out then, Snork Maiden?
Tell us.
Well, first of all, the suitcase does seem to be theirs.
That was one thing they made very clear.
Linhul can the grog.
Just a minute, Moomin.
What's in the suitcase on the other hand belongs to the grog.
That's the problem.
Oh, dear. So they do have something belonging to a...
Oh.
Well, Snork Maiden, what is it?
They wouldn't tell me what it is, little Mai.
Only that it is the most beautiful thing in the world.
Oh, is it?
I wonder.
This is very difficult to understand.
I mean, thing of me and Bob don't look like thieves at all, do they?
So, the grog just wanted back what is hers.
I don't see how that big ugly monster could own the most beautiful thing in the world.
Well, what they said was that she just happened to have it.
They didn't say whether it belonged to her or not.
So she might have stolen it herself.
They shouldn't have taken it, though.
Oh, dear, oh, dear.
Bob and thing of me are very frightened of how she'll take her revenge if she catches them.
But they're very determined to keep what's in the suitcase, Moomin, Papa.
Oh, this is a fine mess indeed.
The grog is sure to come back tonight.
What can we do?
We can do the same as before.
Yeah, but it's not fair to drive her away.
If what's in the suitcase really does belong to her?
She means to get the suitcase and I don't think it will be so easy to get rid of her this time.
And if she stays, we'll have a never-ending winter.
Well, I'll cover up the petunias just in case.
Are you all going to stay here?
I'll look after Snork.
I will, Moomin, Mama, I'll stay.
You'll stay, won't you, Snuffkin?
Don't look so clump, everyone.
I've got an idea.
But it would help if we knew what was in that suitcase.
But even if we didn't, it could still work.
And what is it, dear?
Just wait, Papa. You'll see.
Oh!
She's coming!
Are we?
She's not far away!
Oh, I hope Moomin Papa can do something.
It's your girl, little mom.
Yes, I know.
There's the king and the queen.
This one?
Uh-oh, she's coming.
Just when I was winning.
You better hide under the table, little my.
Don't be stupid!
How can I hit her with my rolling pin from there?
Where is she, Papa?
Exactly where she was yesterday.
I'll go for a toast, alright, Papa?
Let me go first, and then the rest of you can fan out behind me.
Moomin Mama.
What is it, Papa?
Perhaps now's the time to tell us your idea.
We haven't long.
Wait!
Don't go away! We want to talk to you!
We know that you've come back to get what thingamy and Bob took from you.
That is right, isn't it, huh?
Well, won't you let them keep it, uh, perhaps?
Now, will you sell it to them?
Oh, dear.
I have some very beautiful things here in my bag.
Maybe you'd like to trade, Groke?
What about this pendant? Isn't it lovely?
So, you don't like that?
Uh, what about this then?
Or this?
Oh.
All right. Why don't you choose?
Take anything you want from my handbag, except the hair slide.
Which one do you want, this one?
Let me see, with this.
Oh, this one?
Oh, dear, that's not really mine to give to you.
The snorkemaiden gave that to Mumen.
Is it all right if I give the shell to her Mumen?
Oh, Mum!
You'll never allow.
Are you all right?
Yes, my hand was suddenly frozen.
No, you've got the shell, Mrs. Groke.
Do you promise not to come back anymore?
Because I'll get you if you do.
Oh, Mum!
Well, that was a close thing. I'm glad that's over.
Oh, you were marvelous, Mumen.
I'm so sorry, Mumen.
I forgot that I had put your precious shell in my handbag to keep it safe.
It's all right, Mumen. You gave it in a good cause.
What snorkemaiden going to say, Mumen?
What?
I heard you. You said you'd never go to sleep without kissing it,
or something equally stupid.
Well, I'm not going to tell snorkemaiden,
but I think Mum, I did the right thing.
She'll find out I'm fed up with secrets.
I'm always going to tell the truth from now on, no matter what.
Mumen, Mumen! Look! I found one!
Really?
Well, it's very similar, but the one snorkemaiden gave me was much bigger.
Oh, a lot bigger, was it?
Mumen had decided that he had to find a shell that was exactly the same
as the one snorkemaiden had given him.
Then with luck, she would never find out what he'd done with it.
Oh!
This is it! This is it! I killed it!
It's exactly the same as the other one.
Nothing short of a miracle, isn't it?
But then in Mumen Valley, miracles do happen.
They love the laughter and they love to live in the movements.
Believing in sharing and caring and giving the movements.
They're always happy and always at play.
The movements are having fun day after day.
They love the laughter and they love to live in the movements.
Believing in sharing and caring and giving the movements.
They're always happy and always at play.
The movements are having fun day after day.
The movements.
Here they are for one and all.
The movements are about to come.
Come on and sit down here with me.
They're here for you on your TV.
They are the movements.
So come with me, give me your hand.
I'll take you up to Mumen land.
You can fly just like a bird.
Sing that song ever.
There were the movements.
I can't.
That's all right.
Thank you, think of me.
Are you going out?
Yes, for a walk.
We'll have fun.
It seems that think of me and Bob are well and truly part of Moomin House now.
Luckily, they don't eat a lot, and are small enough to find the pencils that fall between
the floorboards in the porch.
Hey, this looks like a great hiding place.
Nobody would ever find it here.
Come on, Bob.
Let's go get the suitcase, man.
Are you sure it's not safe for an alarm?
What would you say if someone went in when we went there?
You wouldn't like it, would you?
I think the Moomin's are much too nice to do anything like that.
It's not there.
It's the guests I'm thinking about.
You know the Moomin's let anybody stay.
Snork maiden.
You lied to me, little Mai.
Who me?
Moomin still has the shell that I gave him, but you said that he didn't.
Impossible.
Moomin mama gave it to the croak.
I was there when she did it.
Look, I saw it.
He showed it to me.
Are you really sure?
Was it the same one?
Of course it was.
I'm not stupid, you know.
That's very odd.
I saw her do it with my own eyes.
Well, I'll go and ask Moomin right now, little Mai.
It's a bit awkward, but if I'm going to be honest, Snork maiden.
What?
Well, I've decided that from now on, I'm only going to tell the truth.
Oh, yes.
And I found something you might be interested in.
Well, what is it?
Mungle and I were down on the beach yesterday, and you remember all those things we found
washed up by the storm?
Do you mean on the haddy fatter's island that we sailed to?
Yes.
And do you remember the figurehead that Moomin liked best of all?
You know, the lady made of wood and painted.
She was really lovely, wasn't she?
Yes.
I remember.
Moomin wanted to keep it.
So what about it?
Well, it's here on the beach.
It was still the same asigi as ever.
Was it the same one?
Yes.
I remember her pretty face.
No legs, though.
She's just a silly wooden doll.
Oh, I know that, but she's got those gorgeous eyes in lovely long hair.
Little Mai, why all this fuss about this silly figurehead?
Trust him.
Only someone as stupid as Moomin could fall in love with a figurehead.
It's probably still dreaming about her every night.
Ah!
Do you think it's still there?
Charles Nork Maiden.
If no one else has found her already, do you think the ocean might come and wash her
away again?
Why all these silly questions, Nork Maiden?
Moomin would go and rescue her if he knew.
So?
That would be terrible.
I couldn't bear it at all.
I really couldn't.
How pathetic.
He'll probably take her home and keep her in his room forever.
My expect she's too big to go through the door.
He'll just sit and stare at her with that lovesick look on his face.
I know he will.
Oh!
Where are you going now?
I thought you were going to Moomin house.
I was, but there's something more important I have to do.
OK, it's clear.
Hey, you two, you're not leaving, are you?
No, we're just, uh, we're going.
Why have you got the suitcase, then?
Moomin, would you help us with something?
Of course.
Thank you very much, Moomin.
Oh, that's OK.
It's a bit too big for you to carry.
We can take it from here.
It's all right.
It's not very heavy.
Oh, silly me.
It wouldn't be a very secret place if I'd seen it, would it?
I'll see you later.
Don't be too long now.
How much you won't tell anyone, will you?
Of course, I won't.
Oh.
Hey, what are you doing up there, little lie?
I'm coming down.
What does it look like?
You're much too small to do that.
The rungs are too far apart for you to reach.
Just you watch me.
Moomin, I have a problem.
Do you mind if I ask you something?
Go ahead.
Did Moomin, Mama, give Snorkman's hard-shaped shell
to the grove?
Yes, she did.
So you and the grove can't both have it, can you?
That's just where you're wrong.
But that's simply impossible.
You can't have.
The grove simply got another one.
That's not true.
All right.
But it would only upset Snorkman if she knew.
So I'm not going to tell her.
You rotten thing.
Why don't you just tell me the truth?
Because it's a secret.
But I want to know, Moomin.
Look, Moomin, now why don't you tell me your secret?
And then I'll tell you mine.
What is it?
Really very top secret.
Go on, then, tell me.
Tell me yours first.
No, you tell me first.
I know.
Let's say them together.
All right.
Ready?
One, two, three.
After we get the shell to the beach today,
we'll find something that you like.
Please, so I'll have the bigger head later.
We'll just like it.
What did you say?
The figure head?
Yes, by the K.
Wait a minute.
You didn't finish telling me your secret.
I'll tell you later.
That's not there.
You've got to tell me now.
What do you think, Moomin, Starlight?
I don't know.
Maybe he's looking for shells again.
I don't think so.
He looks a bit worried to me.
Maybe he's lost something important.
We have to go.
As far as you can road.
We're a long way out already, you know.
I want to make sure that the lady will never turn up again.
We must go further out.
We must be far enough by now.
I'm tired.
No, the Kurds could still drag her in from here.
Keep going.
He looks very unhappy.
You've got to cheer him up.
But how?
There's only one way, Bob.
Yes, you're right, thing of me.
Hello.
You look so sad, Moomin, that we thought we'd try and make you happy again.
You don't mind, do you?
No, but you don't have to.
I'm all right, really.
How about this, Dan Moomin?
We're going to show you what's in our suitcase.
Go.
Would you like that, Moomin?
It's very interesting.
Oh my gosh.
Will you?
Do you need some help in there?
No, I think we can manage.
I can't believe it.
Oh my gosh.
Will you?
Mmm.
I can't believe it.
Hey!
Oh gosh.
By my tail.
Do you like it?
Oh boy.
Do I like it?
Then you're not sad anymore, Moomin?
Oh no.
That's good, isn't it?
Yes, very good.
It was such a beautiful ruby.
How it changed color from soft red to soft blue and then to pink?
What minute it was like a fluke?
Oh no.
That's good, isn't it?
Yes, very good.
It was such a beautiful ruby.
How it changed color from soft red to soft blue and then to pink?
How minute it was like a flag leaping out of the center.
Then suddenly it was like a black tulip.
It was...
Hmm...
Perhaps that's the king's ruby.
It was just beautiful.
That's the one the Hobgoblin is searching for.
Oh no.
However far away he is.
He'll come back on his black panther.
Looking for it.
And he's sure to find it.
Because he'll know that Thbingamion Bob have it.
First the G Rover.
Now the Hobgoblin.
What are we going to do?
No more than a week later, and like a bolt from the blue, a real catastrophe hit Moomin Valley.
No, it's not in the bedroom either.
That's very odd. Where did you see it last?
I'm sure it was here somewhere, Papa.
Well, perhaps it's in the garden.
No, I haven't been out here all day.
Moomin Mama's handbag is missing.
Full of useful things like socks and sweets and string.
What's the matter, Mama?
I can't find my handbag and I'm lost without it.
We've looked everywhere.
Will I get a reward if I find it, Moomin Mama?
Yes, we'll have a big party for everyone with cakes, jelly, and everything.
And as a special treat, no one has to wash or go to bed early.
I'll find it, Mama. No, I will.
Moomin Mama, I've checked the cellar. It's not there.
Oh, dear. Where could it be?
I haven't been in the cellar for days, so I didn't think it would be there.
But thank you, dear snork.
Word got round Moomin Valley of the missing handbag.
And soon everyone was helping to look for it.
What a lot of people!
I wonder what they're looking for.
What's everybody looking for?
My handbag, thingamy.
The one with the two nice little pockets?
Yes, that's the one. It's been missing for days.
Will you two help us look?
It makes such a lovely place to sleep and don't you think?
Moomin Mama looks very sad.
Perhaps we better give it back.
Oh.
Oh, you found it.
Look, everybody, thingamy and Bob have found it.
Oh, thank you. Where on earth did you find it?
In the bush under the white birch tree.
It's a very, very nice handbag.
Let's have a party tonight to celebrate the return of Mama's handbag.
As you all know, this party is in honor of thingamy and Bob finding Moomin Mama's handbag.
And to thank everyone who took part in the big search.
Let's raise our glasses to our heroes.
Here's the thingamy and Bob who found Moomin Mama's handbag without which Moomin Valley would never be the same again.
Cheers!
Now, I think Moomin would like to say a few words.
A moment.
We're very pleased that Mama's handbag is back again.
And thank you to our northern friends, thingamy and Bob.
You're seeing as how this is a very special occasion.
And also, as a thank you for the party, they have decided to show us what is in their suitcase.
And I'm sure you'll all be astounded by what you see.
Ha! Come closer, everyone. Now, thingamy and Bob, are you ready?
Ready, everyone?
One, two, three.
How wonderful.
I don't know how the growth could swap that for an old seashell.
By my, that must be the King's Ruby.
The King's Ruby, I found it.
It's the Hub Goblin!
Yes, this is it. The Ruby I've sworn to find.
Huh?
Don't touch it! It's ours!
Go away, you nasty Hub Goblin.
But that King's Ruby belongs only to me.
No, it doesn't. The growth gave it to singamy and Bob in fair exchange for a heart-shaped shell, Mr. Hub Goblin.
Did he say a heart-shaped shell?
I think so.
Anyway, I saw her give it to them with my own eyes.
Show it belongs to them, not you.
I've spent 300 years day and night searching everywhere for this Ruby.
Well, that's very sad, but it still is.
Now then, let's see. Would you exchange the Ruby for, say, two diamond mines?
No! We don't mind anything else!
No, I can't do it. I can't take it by force.
It's been so long. What can I do?
Would you like some punch? It's very nice.
That's very kind of you, woman mama. I haven't had any for 85 years.
Ah, quince.
That's part of it, Mr. Hub Goblin. Have some more, please.
No, thank you. Hub Goblins don't really drink very much.
Well, this is a splendid punch and a splendid party. In return, I shall show you a little magic.
I will give out three presents. Now what I can do is grant three wishes,
so I want three of you to come forward and make a wish.
You're not afraid, are you?
How you look old enough not to be frightened, Mr. Emulan?
Just let me think. Oh, yes, Mr. Hub Goblin. I broke the spade I borrowed from woman papa.
No, Mr. Himmelan, have you ever make a proper wish?
I would like a new spade, if you please.
Very well, here you are.
Oh, thank you. Thank you very much, Mr. Hub Goblin.
Here you are, woman papa.
Right, who's next?
Excuse me?
Yes, and what can I do for you, young lady?
Well, I'm afraid it might be a little difficult.
For me?
Is that really what you want?
Please.
All right, then close your eyes.
Your wish has now come true, young lady.
Oh!
Oh, snorke-may.
Oh, snorke-may done.
I've wanted eyes like that, wouldn't lady you think is so beautiful?
Do you think I'm beautiful now, woman?
Well, I, well, give me a mirror, someone.
They're quite nice, really.
What?
Huh?
This is horrible, horrible.
Please, Mr. Hub Goblin, please give me my eyes back.
I'm sorry, but I can only grant one wish per person.
Oh, that's really me, no, please.
Mr. Hub Goblin, can I make a wish now?
Certainly, a golden chariot, a rock crystal goblin.
Anything at all.
A sack full of gold coins, you can be rich, woman.
Really rich.
I'm sorry, but movements is the last wish.
I know, why don't you ask for two sackfuls of gold, woman?
Then we can have one each, what do you think?
No, sniff, I know what I'm going to wish.
Oh, man.
Mr. Hub Goblin, please change snorke-mayden's eyes back to her own.
Never mind her, she can see all right, get the gold coins.
The wish is made and fulfilled.
There you are, have a look.
Oh, now next time, think before you make a wish.
Moment.
Mr. Hub Goblin?
Yes, think of me.
If you can grant wishes like that, why don't you make a wish for yourself?
I'm afraid my magic only works for other people.
Mr. Hub Goblin, can we make a wish for you then?
Please say we can't, please.
I suppose so.
Oh, please, it's important.
Very well, as it is not for you.
We wish for a movie just like yours.
You shall have it.
This is for you, Hub Goblin.
Oh, thank you, thank you.
And so that was how, after 300 years, the Hub Goblin search came to an end,
and Moomin Valley had never had such a celebration.
Everyone was happy, except possibly Sniff, who would have quite liked a sack full of gold coins.
They loved the laughter, and they loved the living, the movements.
Believing in sharing, and caring, and giving the movements.
They're always happy, and always at play.
Moomin's are having fun day after day, the Moomin's.
The Moomin's.
They loved the laughter, and they loved the living, the movements.
Believing in sharing, and caring, and giving the movements.
They're always happy, and always at play.
The Moomin's are having fun day after day, the Moomin's.
The Moomin's.
Here they are for one and all.
The Moomin's are about to call.
Come on and sit down here with me.
They're for you on your TV.
They are the movements.
So come with me, give me your hand.
I'll take you up to Moomin land.
You can fly just like a bird.
Sing that song ever.
There were the movements.
Come on man, you were here already.
This is Moomin house.
It has been raining since lunchtime, and Moomin and his friends had spent all afternoon in Moomin house, waiting for the sun to come out.
So, Tiki's arrival was very welcome.
Good evening, Moomin.
Tiki, come here.
Mama, don't take his hair.
Come on in, Mani.
I need Moomin.
Is there someone with you?
Yes, I brought my friend, Mani.
Mani, don't be shy.
Well, there's no one there.
Yes, there is.
You just can't see her.
Really?
Yes, I'm afraid she's very, very shy.
I'll leave the door open for you, Mani.
Come in when you're ready.
She'll get soaked if she stays out there.
Maybe that doesn't matter very much if you're invisible.
Oh.
Too Tiki, how nice.
What is everyone looking at?
About Mani, you know sometimes when people are very frightened,
they can become invisible to the people around them.
Poor Mani, she's looked after by an aunt who doesn't like her,
and is really horrible to her and who only does it because she thinks it's her duty.
It wouldn't be so bad if she just got mad and yelled at her,
but she's cold and sarcastic, which is much worse.
She doesn't care if Mani is unhappy and gives her horrible jobs.
What's sarcastic?
Uh, let's see.
Suppose you tripped and fell over.
What would Mum and Mama say?
Well, she does me a fight hurt myself.
Yes, well, you're lucky that Mum and Mama is so nice,
but a lot of people would be mad at you.
Now, this nasty old lady would say that maybe you're right, dear of dancing,
but try not to do it when people are eaten, please.
Gosh, that's horrible.
Anyway, she just went on being more and more horrible to her,
so that in the end, Nini was so upset she became invisible.
And our aunt said she couldn't be bothered to look after little girl she couldn't see.
Poor Nini.
So she asked me to do it.
Nini's still outside.
Too nervous to come in.
But what did you do to this old aunt?
I hope you told her she heard Nini's feelings.
He wouldn't have done any good, not with someone like her.
So I took Nini home, and then as you're the nicest family I know,
I brought her here so you could make her visible again.
You were very flattered, of course, too, Tiki, but...
If anyone can do it, you and Mum and Mama can.
And Mum can play with her.
Does she talk at all to Tiki?
I'm afraid not. Not since she became invisible.
Oh, dear.
I'm sure I can think of lots of games, but it'll be hard to play
if I can't see her. She'll be really good at hide and seek, though.
Oh, it's okay. You'll know where she is because her aunt hung a little bell around her neck.
Oh, look, the door's opened.
That'll be Nini.
Come in, Nini. It's all right. Don't be frightened.
Come and meet everyone. This is your new home, and this is Mum and Mama and Mum and Papa.
They're both very nice.
Hello, I'm Mum and these are my friends.
We were just having some tea. Would you like some?
Oh, that is, if you can drink.
Oh, perhaps I should make some lemonade.
Well, now, perhaps you'd all like to go back to the table.
If you'd care to sit down, Nini.
I'm sorry I don't know any more about her, but I'm sure that everything will be okay now she's here.
I'm certain it will.
We'll do our best, Tiki.
Here you are, Nini.
Well, she seems to be okay now, so I'd better be getting along.
I've got a lot of things to do. I'll try and come over to see how you're all going.
That would really be nice.
Oh, it's better.
You have got room, haven't you? Didn't you have someone else stand?
Ah, yes, thing I mean Bob, but it's alright. They left last week.
That's okay then.
Oh, you must have been thirsty. Would you like some more?
Sure.
Oh, are you coming up with me?
That's nice, Nini.
This is your very own room. You'll be warm and cozy here.
I've put the lemonade on the table so you can have a drink whenever you want.
Are you sure you wouldn't like something to eat?
Ah, I see, you want to go to bed.
Well, you had a busy day, so you must be tired out.
And don't forget, if you feel frightened or lonely during the night,
just come and wake me up and we'll have a talk.
If you like, you can tinkle your little bell in my ear and that should do it many dear.
Sweet dreams, sleep well.
She asleep?
Yes.
I was wondering whether there's anything that might help her in your granny's book of household remedies.
I don't know if there's a cure for invisibility. I can't remember, but I'll have a look.
There's a remedy for most things.
I'm a phone believer in granny's remedy.
I know you are dear. I'll go and see.
I wonder what you looked like.
Hmm. Hmm.
Ah, there it is.
Now then, a droopy tail, evil eye, melancholy.
Ah, this must be it.
The prescription was at the end of the book and shakily written, but it looked like the right one.
It said, remedy for when people start getting misty and difficult to see.
It was very complicated.
Do you think it's going to work, Mama?
Granny's remedies usually do, so don't worry.
Yes, you're right.
I wonder whether we ought to go and wake her up.
Look, you can send in these shoes.
Papa! Papa!
Oh, good morning, little Mai.
Is Ninny up yet?
Yeah, she is.
Where is she? She hasn't eaten yet, has she?
I don't know, and she's probably in the dining room.
Oh, no!
I'm too late!
I'd be quiet, you two.
Ninny is just finishing her breakfast.
Come on, drink it all up.
That's good.
It should start to work in a couple of hours. Well done, Ninny.
Look, her shoes are floating.
Yeah, the seal will be seeing little bit seeing the rest of her.
Ha, they look silly.
I think they're very nice feet.
I know and woman, Mama's remedies are good, but I can't see them working that fast.
Anyway, you must look pretty bad if you want to make yourself invisible.
Don't let little Mai upset you, Ninny. It's only the way she talks.
She doesn't mean it.
Oh, yes I do. I'm bored, Moomin.
Well, what shall we do then, Moomin?
I don't know. Let's go mushroom picking.
That's boring, I never find any.
Well, I do.
Would you like to come, Ninny?
Good, and we can see who can pick the most, shall we?
They all look the same to me, so you'll have to tell me which ones are safe to eat.
I'll tell you.
Papa! Papa!
Look Papa, you can see Ninny's shoes now.
Oh, that's good. There's not many things Mama's potions won't cure.
Oh, it can't be that. She only took it a minute ago.
Well, it might be that it works faster if you're completely invisible.
I think it's being away from that horrid ant.
Yes, it could.
Mama, we're taking Ninny mushroom picking.
Have a nice time.
Morning!
Hello!
Where's Ninny?
Oh!
Wow, what a lot of mushrooms!
You seem to know where to find all the best ones, Ninny.
It's not fair. I haven't gotten half as many.
How are you doing, Momen?
Wow, that must be about four times as many as I've got.
Yeah, that's right.
You've never picked that many before.
You know, Momen, I think there's something fishy about this.
Uh-huh, so they're not yours at all.
Well, not really, no.
Ninny's enjoyed herself.
I'd better yak you old ant never let her go mushroom picking.
She was probably only allowed to carry the baskets, the really heavy ones.
Oh, how awful for her.
They're stinky. What's he up to now?
I'll take care of him.
Hello, Momen, long time no see.
Not long enough. Last time you dipped my swimming shorts in glue.
You know, I thought that was very funny.
Hey, what's that basket floating around up there for?
I don't want to be rude, but mind your own business.
It looks like the Hobgoblins work.
Boy, just think of all the things you could do if you were invisible.
Ninny, I'll carry your basket. Let's go.
It stinks here.
Hey, you! Is Ninny a name or just a description?
What's wrong? Is your voice invisible, too?
Please stop it, stinky. Can't you see you're frightening her?
Oh, it's a girl, is it? Why doesn't she speak for herself?
She's stupid. What a perfect name for her, Ninny.
Now look, stinky.
Oh, yes, Momen, now look what?
You stop upsetting Ninny or I'll get really angry.
Without those feet, she'd be perfect for a bank robbery.
Well, she's getting visible again, so she'll be no good to you at all, stinky.
You couldn't see any of her yesterday, not even the feet.
Oh, they're disappearing again.
You have to do a scare of it.
Oh, see, she's gone.
It's all your fault, stinky.
Yes, and like I told you before, she'd make a brilliant bank robbery.
Don't you agree? Perfect.
Ninny would never do such a thing as that.
Anyway, Mama's given her one of Granny's magic remedies.
She'll soon be visible again, so they're there.
Whose basket is this?
Mine in little mice.
Well, there's not many of them, but they certainly are pretty.
There weren't many left for us to get, because Ninny has picked them all.
It doesn't really matter how many you've got, because you can't eat them.
Let me show you.
Now, this is deadly, tufted toadstool.
And this is cow's bane.
You must remember what they look like.
These are movements and sniff, I should think.
We didn't pick any poisoners ones.
Not quite as many as snorkemaiden and little mice, but this is body fly bane
and insiduous pepper spunk.
And you've both got cow's bane, too.
You must be more careful.
Now, this is better.
There's not one mushroom in here that you can't eat.
How did Ninny manage to do this all on her own?
What a very clever girl she is.
Ninny, where are you? Come here a minute.
Ninny, didn't you hear? Mama wants you.
Ninny, this is a beautiful mushroom basket.
We'll have a feast tonight.
Her feet have come back.
Oh, I'm so glad.
We'll soon be able to see your face.
It won't take long at all, Ninny.
And you mustn't worry about stinky one little bit.
He's all talk.
If something upsets you, just think of something else.
At least that's my philosophy in life.
If somebody upsets you, ignore him.
That's my philosophy, Ninny.
Anyone who picks mushrooms like this deserves to be seen.
You mustn't let anything frighten you when you're with us.
Do you understand?
Come on, everybody's waiting to see you.
That's just great, Ninny.
Oh, that's wonderful, Ninny, wonderful.
I can't wait to see all of you.
It won't be long now.
But I don't think Mouse Gray is quite your color, you know.
You just sleep as long as you like, Ninny.
Good night now.
If you want anything, you just shout.
Oh.
Oh, where's Mom and Mama?
Well, well, what are you doing?
Do you know what time it is?
Do you like this movement, Papa?
Hmm.
Yes, it's very nice.
It's good to have someone in the house
to make clothes for at last.
I hope it'll look pretty on her.
What's this for?
Her hair.
Oh!
Good morning, movement, Papa!
Good morning, little my.
You're very early today.
Where's Nini?
Still in bed.
You're a burly?
I can't wait to see her.
Come on, man.
It's like waiting for Christmas, isn't it?
Yeah, I like having presents every day.
Isn't it, Papa?
Well, I think it's much more exciting this way.
We have to wait until she's ready to come down.
Did you hear that door opening?
She's awake!
I hope she found the dress where I left it on the table.
It's so hot!
Oh, good.
It's all right.
Now you know where to look.
Well, she's okay, I suppose.
Thank you all very much for everything.
Oh! Ha! So she can talk!
They still couldn't see Nini's face,
but at least they knew that she was there,
and that she was talking to them.
I made them all feel a lot better.
Stork made them! Look!
They're always happy and always at play.
The movements are having fun day after day.
The movements.
They love the laughter and they love the living.
You're leaving and sharing and caring and giving.
The movements.
They're always happy and always at play.
The movements are having fun day after day.
The movements.
There were the movements.
There was the movements.
Bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat
Bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat bat
Where's Danny?
I asked her if she wanted to play with us,
and she said yes!
Danny, come on!
We're going to have some fun!
Right, let's go!
Danny, who became invisible because of her sarcastic aunt,
was now visible up to the neck.
But no matter how much of Granny's remedy she took,
or how nice the movements were to her,
her hips still remained invisible.
That's the invisible child.
I wonder what she really looks like.
Well, good morning, everybody!
Morning, lazy bones!
We've been up for hours and hours!
We're going to play hide-and-seek in the woods!
Great!
Ninny, come on!
We're going to play hide-and-seek in the woods!
That's the invisible child!
I wonder what she really looks like!
Well, good morning, everybody!
Morning, lazy bones!
We've been up for hours and hours!
Great!
Ninny, are you all right?
Yes, thanks!
This is dumb!
If I could see your face, I wouldn't have to ask!
Doesn't help with you, Sniff!
You always ask silly questions!
It's a bit big for hide-and-seek, isn't it?
But that's what's so good about it!
Okay, this is a good place to start,
but we've got a new rule for the game.
Once you find somewhere to hide,
you've got to stay in the same place,
no moving about anyone.
Do you understand, Ninny?
Right, you're to go first, Sniff!
Huh? Why isn't always me first?
We'll have a practice for Ninny's sake,
show her what to do.
Uh, hide-and-seek is an easy game!
Not for Ninny, it isn't!
She's never played it before!
What? Never ever?
No, and not just hide-and-seek!
She hasn't played any games at all!
Not even when she was visible?
No, nothing!
Oh, that's terrible!
So, will you go first?
No, I won't!
Count to 10 slowly,
so you'll have plenty of time to find somewhere!
One!
Two!
Three!
Go on, Ninny, hurry up!
Four!
Five!
I can still see you!
Six!
Seven!
Good!
Eight!
Nine!
Two!
Hello, Ninny!
Don't be frightened!
Why don't you hide in that bush over there?
He'll never find you!
I'm coming!
Thank you!
Ouch, my tail!
Got you, Sniff!
Eh!
Huh?
Hmm?
Ah!
Hehehe!
Huh?
Got you, Little Mike!
No!
I'd like to know where Ninny's hiding!
Oh, look!
Oh!
Ah, come out, Ninny!
I've got you!
That was a good place, but I saw your ribbon!
Oh!
Now for Snort Maiden!
She's always easy to find!
Ha!
That's only because she wants to be found!
Found you, Snort Maiden!
One!
Two!
Three!
Don't wait, Ninny!
This is my bush!
Four!
Hey, Ninny!
I'll show you a good place!
Just come with your ankles stinky!
Now don't worry, no one will find you there!
It opens up once you're inside!
Come on!
It's a bit steep, I'll help you!
Oh!
Right! That should keep you quiet!
You're a bit too visible at the moment!
Oh, let me out!
But I'm sure if you stay here until tomorrow, no one will see it all!
Please don't leave me here!
Please!
Ha! That's it!
Now tomorrow we'll hit the bank!
Let me out!
Please let me out!
I'm very glad I thought of bringing Ninny here!
It's nice to have her here too, Tiki!
She's no trouble at all!
You're all pretty eccentric!
And it might be just what she needs to make her want to be seen again!
And you're very kind, of course!
Well, thank you!
I think I suppose we should be flattered, shouldn't we?
Oh, yes, definitely!
She started to talk, but her voice is very weak!
You have to listen very carefully!
Has it always been like that?
Or just since she was invisible?
I'm not sure I don't think it was like that before!
Lots of people manage very well without using their heads, so I'm certain Ninny will be all right!
Yes, and I'm glad she's got Moomin and the others to play with!
She's never had anybody before, you know?
I think she'd find it a bit difficult to Tiki!
Well, Mum and Mama, I think that all she needs is something to shock her out of it!
Huh, got you little, my!
Oh! That bush was too prickly anyway!
I expect I'm the last one, hey!
No, I haven't found Ninny yet!
Ninny!
I didn't think Ninny would hide so well!
And he lucked, Sniff!
There's nowhere else to look, Moomin!
Perhaps she's lost or fallen or hurt herself!
Well, I've looked absolutely everywhere!
I bet she's invisible again!
That's why I can't find her!
I bet, Sniff!
I bet Sniff hasn't looked everywhere!
She can't be far!
Do you know where she is, Moomin?
No, I haven't seen her at all!
Not since we started!
Ninny!
Come on! We're going home!
We've finished playing!
Ninny!
Oh, my goodness! Where could she be?
She's your turn, Sniff!
You've got to find her!
Never mind, we'll all look!
We must find her!
We are supposed to be looking after her, you know?
Oh, come on, Ninny!
The game's over!
We've finished!
Ninny!
Hurry up!
We're going home for cookies and lemonade!
Ninny!
Ah!
Can you hear us?
We weren't supposed to come this far, Snort Maiden.
She might be really lost or frightened or anything!
Ninny!
Where are you, Ninny?
Can you hear me?
Ninny!
Help! I'm over here!
Did you hear something?
I'm not sure!
Help! Help! I'm here!
Help!
That's her!
She's not far away!
Ninny! Where are you?
Here! Behind this rock!
Where's her voice coming from?
That way, I think!
Ninny!
I can't hear what you're saying!
Try and shout a bit louder!
Over here! Over here!
Behind the rock!
I still can't hear properly!
Louder, Ninny! Louder!
Behind the rock!
Which rock?
Over here!
The big rock!
Over there!
I've never shouted so much in my life!
Ninny!
Ninny, are you behind this rock, Ninny?
Stinky block the cave with it!
Don't worry, we'll get you out!
Hang on!
Are you all right, Ninny?
Thank you, Mummin!
Oh, thank you!
Your voice seems to be...
Oh, what?
Oh, nothing!
Try and hold on to me, and I'll pull you out!
Oh, thank you!
Hey, what's happened?
Where'd you find her?
In the cave!
Wow, what a brilliant hiding place had you find it!
What's wrong?
Did I say something funny?
Now, that was very mean of stinking.
The clever idea, though, of interuser for a ban robbery.
Oh, Papa!
Oh, I know Stinky shouldn't have done it,
and it must have been a nasty shopping,
trapped in the dark in that cave,
but no real harm came to her,
and she didn't disappear,
and her voice got much stronger.
Because she yelled so loud!
Goodness, did you, dear?
Yes, Mummin, Mama!
Mummin told me to yell loudly,
so he'd know where I was!
And it was loud, too!
Good for you, Ninny!
You have to, and you ought to remember,
that people who speak loudly are usually very noticeable.
Go on, yell! I want to see it!
That's a good idea, Ninny!
If shouting brought back your voice,
you never know it might be just what's needed
to make the rest of you visible!
Try and get angry as well!
Yeah, that's easy! Just think about Stinky!
Yeah, and how horrible he is!
That should make you angry!
Very angry!
Just you wait, Stinky!
I can't help faster than me!
Stinky, wait!
We want to talk to you!
I don't want to talk to you!
Are you all right, Sniff?
She can't get away, Stinky!
The forest is my home ground!
You won't catch me in here!
I did it!
Hold it!
You can't do this to me!
We're only doing what you did to Ninny!
Now look, I needed her to help me!
I did, I tell ya!
But she didn't want to, huh?
That's why I put her down this hole to change her mind!
And scare her so much that she'd become totally invisible again!
She had to be invisible for my plan!
Now get me out of here!
It's all right, Stinky! See you tomorrow!
No!
You crushed few thieves!
I had such a wonderful plan!
Ah!
Ah! You're spiteful!
Let's hear them my next job!
But despite all that had happened,
Ninny's face was still not to be seen.
Then, about ten days later.
This weather seems to push the nails out.
I haven't seen anyone stare at the sea like Ninny does.
Well, maybe she's never seen it before!
Ah!
Oh, she's crying now!
What's the matter?
It's the sea!
It's far too big!
You don't have to go on it, you know.
Mama! Mama! What's up?
Hmm?
What's the matter with her?
Nothing to worry about.
She's never seen the sea before,
and she's just surprised at how big it is.
Well, there's an awful lot of water, that's for sure.
Ah!
Ninny's lucky.
I wish there was something to surprise or excite me.
Nothing's happened for weeks.
Anything would be nice.
Mama must be bored.
I think you're right.
But she never gets bored.
Well, she is now. She needs something to happen.
I think we should do something to surprise her.
Like what?
Well, I know what we can do.
Tell me.
We'll creep up behind her and just give her a little push.
What, Papa?
Push her into the sea?
Oh, Papa, you can't. Mama wouldn't like it.
Just watch me.
But the water's freezing. A mama will get all wet.
We never found the water too cold when we were your age.
You young people today have no sense of fun.
Did you really used to do things like that?
All the time.
Papa?
Yes, Mumann.
Oh, nothing.
She's a prank. She'll find it very funny. I promise.
Oh!
Papa, you're dead!
Dow?
Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh.
Don't you dare push your end to that big horrible scene.
Let me explain to you.
There's nothing to explain.
You're a big bully.
She didn't go to a wet.
What a nasty trick.
You could never, never.
Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh.
Oh, oh, oh, oh.
There's your face!
Hurry!
Oh, oh, oh, oh.
That's the last thing to see you.
What on earth happened?
Were you up to something?
Oh, nothing much?
You know, that child has got the sharpest teeth
with her without her head.
Oh, woman, woman, at last I'm visible again.
We're always, you won't disappear again.
Never, I'll never.
Brave girl.
And with a good strong set of healthy teeth, too.
Oh, I'm so happy, nanny.
Me, me, dear.
I'm very glad, too.
Oh, oh, oh.
Oh, oh, oh, oh.
Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh.
And you?
Stop laughing, you horrible child,
Child, you use Sirtooth monster.
What's so funny, huh?
Really?
Really? Ninny laughed?
Well, she certainly changed, Mum and Mama.
All she needed was to get angry, and she did.
I hope Mum and Papa's forgiven Ninny.
Thank you all for taking such good care of her.
I hate to say it, but she sounds almost as bad as it'll mind now.
Tiki! Ninny!
And so Ninny left Mum and House with Tiki.
Now that she was completely visible and far from timid,
she was ready for anything.
Anything that is except seeing her aunt, she said.
The Moves! The Moves! The Moves! The Moves!
The Moves! The Moves! The Moves! The Moves! The Moves! The Moves! The Moves! The Moves! The Moves! The Moves! The Moves! The Moves! The Moves! The Moves! The Moves! The Moves! The Moves! The Moves! The Moves! The Moves! The Moves! The Moves! The Moves! The Moves! The Moves! The Moves! The Moves! The Moves! The Moves! The Moves! The Moves! The Moves! The Moves! The Moves! The Moves! The Moves! The Moves! The Moves! The Moves! The Moves! The Moves! The Moves! The Moves! The Moves! The Moves! The Moves! The Moves! The Moves! The Moves! The Moves! The Moves! The Moves! The Moves! The Moves! The Moves! The Moves
Ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba
Snort Maiden is running as if the groke is chasing her. I don't think I've ever seen her run so fast. I wonder what's the matter? Perhaps something terrible has happened.
Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom
Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom
A snork? Wait! Wait! Please! Stop! Snork! Don't do it! Why have you brought everybody here, snork maiden?
They've come to beg you not to do it! You're too young and brilliant for such a tragic end. Thank the bobble we were in time!
As a matter of fact, you weren't. Oh, really? It looks very dangerous to me, snork.
Well, it's not a tall woman, Papa. I made these wings myself. They're perfectly balanced.
Well, yes, I'm sure they are, but...
The blueprints are detailed and precise. They're quite safe.
Tell me, snork. Why did you stop on the edge like that after running down the slope?
I was measuring the right length for my approach run.
Don't do it, snork. I don't want to lose my only brother.
Don't make such a fuss, snork maiden.
Do you really think it's safe? Of course it is. You don't see birds falling out of the sky, do you?
Well, at least. Do your test flight just above the ground so that if something happens to go wrong,
I've already done that from the roof of our house and it worked beautifully.
Did you see him? No, I didn't see anything.
Of course you didn't. Do you think I let a wimpy little sister watch me?
What's that supposed to mean, snork?
Just that I don't want you sticking your big nose into my affairs all the time.
I don't like it and there's nothing to do with you.
Yours is just as big and I don't want to lose you.
Don't go on about losing me. Why not?
Come on now, you two. Stop it.
Hey, careful.
Oops, that was close. Snork maiden, I don't think your brother is going to be stopped.
Oh dear, oh dear.
You're very brave, snork.
Hmm, right. Here we go.
This time it will be a perfect takeoff.
It's a long way. Oh look, isn't that snuffkin down there?
Where? Where is he? Where's snuffkin?
You can't see him from there, Sniff. You'll have to come here.
Is it really snuffkin?
Yes, I'm sure it is. Snuffkin!
Yeah!
Baby, here you.
No, I don't think so.
All right, here goes.
Good luck, snork.
Here.
He's flying!
I...
Whoa!
It's the snork!
Hey!
Look at him flying.
It's all right, snork maiden.
Your brother's doing fine. Come and see.
He's done it! He's done it!
Whoa, I knew he could do it.
Well, so did I, to be honest.
Huh? Yeah, snork!
Hello!
Hi! How are you doing?
How are you doing?
It's great that this test line is a great success.
Okay, just as I thought he can't fly in wave at the same time.
Interesting.
That was mean, stinky.
If I could get him to wave with both arms, he'd probably fall.
Look, we don't want you here, stinky.
Why don't you just go away?
I can find lots to do with that machine.
If you won't go away, I will.
Well, go on then, Snuffkin.
What do I care what you do?
Hmm, that would be perfect for robberies.
The wind seems to be taking him out to sea.
Why doesn't he turn around and come back?
Turning in that thing might not be so easy.
What, do you mean he can't?
I'm not sure.
Turning in that thing might not be so easy.
What, do you mean he can't?
Don't worry, Snuffkin made him.
Of course he can.
What's this I can't turn around?
Oh!
Oh, he's hit a tree.
Come on, hurry.
Oh!
Is he dead?
No, he's been knocked out.
He looks dead to me anyway.
Where are they?
What's happened to the wings?
Ah!
He won't want them anymore.
So now I can have them.
Now, let me see.
So, did the test fly go all right?
Tell me what happened.
Well, it was fine until the very end.
I'm sure that you only need a bit more practice.
Flying isn't the easiest thing to master, you know.
I expect so.
Let's hope you don't run out of bandages, though.
Excuse me, snork.
Hmm?
Are you going to use the wings anymore?
I might not.
Why?
Well, I'll have them if you don't want them.
I want to fly in the sky, too.
It looks the most exciting thing I've ever seen.
Oh, please let me have them.
Well, it's not as simple as that, movement.
They need testing before the design is complete.
But I could do that, snork.
I know I could do it.
Please let me have them.
Well, I suppose I could do with some help.
There's a lot to do, fetching and carrying mostly.
You haven't said if I can have the wings or not yet, snork.
Yes, you can, but on one condition.
Well, now the blueprints are finished and the wings are more or less right.
I'll need somewhere to build the ship.
And somewhere to store all the materials so they'll be dry and at hand.
Yes, you will snork.
I can see that.
It doesn't have to be much.
Just a roof will do.
Or, and walls.
So that people can't spy on me and steal my ideas.
I can do the building myself.
But I'll need some help.
And when it's finished, you can have the wings.
I have to help you.
I'd have done that anyway, but now that I can have the wings all worked twice as hard.
You won't regret it, snork.
I promise you you won't.
Splendid, woman.
That's settled then.
Perhaps we can get more help.
I'm sure that'd be easy.
How about it, Snuffkin?
Yes, of course.
Will you help us do Sniff?
Yes, but I want something too.
I'll let you borrow the wings.
I only break them.
Don't worry, Sniff.
I'm sure I'll think of something you can have.
Oh, as long as it's something nice.
Oh, I do love helping people.
You're all hard, Sniff.
We know that, for sure.
I'm sure you'll need some expert help with the shed, snork.
Surely this must be deep enough, Papa?
Oh, no.
We moments always build for posterity.
Besides, I like pouring cement.
Okay, Papa.
Hey, Papa.
I've given your present a lot of fortune, though.
And I think I'll give you one of my invaluable books on machinery.
Oh?
Don't you want it?
Well, if there was something else, I'm not much of a reader.
What about my invaluable fountain pen?
Invaluable fountain pen?
What about my invaluable...
Do you have anything that's not invaluable, Snork?
Well, what about a gold coin?
Well, that sounds great.
A real gold coin?
Oh, boy.
Hey.
You are digging a very deep hole.
Oh, why don't you stop and have some sandwiches?
Should we do that, Papa? Go on.
Yes, I think we can stop now.
Sniff and your brother in the woods.
Yes, I know. I hurt them.
Hi, Snork Maiden.
Oh, no.
Wait a minute, I want to ask you something.
What is it?
Tell me, Snork Maiden.
Is it true that your brother gave those wings to a woman?
Yes, it is. He's helping Snork to build the shed his payment.
I thought they'd been broken up.
They hit that tree very hard.
Well, my brother's repairing them.
Will you let me pass?
I've got to take his lunch to him.
And will he be able to repair them?
He can repair anything.
Mmm.
Gosh, what a lot of wood you've got.
Well, the shed has to be a lot bigger than my flying ship.
Moomin' and Moomin' Papa are digging holes.
They sure are deep.
Oh, boy.
It'll be a lot bigger than my flying ship.
Moomin' and Moomin' Papa are digging holes. They sure are deep.
Everybody's being very kind, very kind indeed.
Mama's cooking and Snuffkin's gone to get nails.
There are some other things I need him to get as well.
Will you write them down?
Of course, I will, Snork.
Oh, you're such a planner.
Oh, I'm afraid.
Hey, what's up?
The...
Your...
Moment here.
Come in, moving.
Thank you for all your help.
You did so much that these wings are hardly paymented enough.
But if you're happy with them.
Oh, no, it was great fun building the shed.
I changed the design a bit,
so it's easier to take off and land.
We have a problem anymore.
You must remember to give yourself plenty of time though, woman.
Thank you, Snork.
I can't wait to try them out.
I'm so excited.
I don't think I'll sleep tonight.
Are you trying them out tomorrow?
As soon as I can.
You will be careful.
You must practice a lot just above the ground to get used to wearing them before you try
to go too high.
I don't want anything to happen to you.
I'll practice, I promise.
Where are you going to practice tomorrow?
I haven't decided.
I'll find somewhere when I come out tomorrow, perhaps on that small hill near the cliff.
But that can't be too dangerous.
I'll see you there.
Hey!
Hi, Momen.
Where do you put the wings?
On the table outside.
You must have gone past them if you came in through the veranda door.
No, I didn't.
They're not there.
What?
Oh no, you're right.
They're gone.
Oh dear, I thought it was my wish.
What's happened to them?
Somebody stolen them.
What's the matter with you, too?
Is something wrong?
Yes, somebody stolen Momen's wings.
Well, perhaps they have them in stolen.
Of course they have, and I bet I know who did it, too.
Come on.
Where are we going?
Do you know where they are?
It's stinky.
Oh, yeah.
Well, it certainly didn't take you long.
Just a minute, stinky.
Those are my wings.
See, I knew it was him.
You are the creature.
I certainly will back.
If you give them back, stinky, I'll let you try them out later.
I promise.
No way, boom.
When they're mine now, I'm going to be a high flier.
Look out, moving.
Oh, stop!
Oh no!
You're pathetic.
The wings are mine.
I'll become a master criminal now.
All rotten seabing.
You shouldn't have left them outside, Momen.
Yeah, but who'd think let each steal them?
Where his friends?
Well, almost.
I didn't think even stinky would do something like that.
Well, he did, didn't he?
Now, don't worry, Momen.
We'll find him and get them back.
I know it.
Look, Momen.
Now he's going towards the sea.
Oh no, turn around.
But stinky didn't know how to maneuver the wings.
It must take him further and further out.
Turn around, we'll get turned back.
Until?
You're at least he's having a bath for once.
The wings will be badly damaged.
Never mind.
Snark will build another pair.
I sure hope so.
They love the laughter and they love the living.
The movements.
Believing in sharing and caring and giving the movements.
They're always happy and always at play.
The movements are having fun day after day.
The movements.
They love the laughter and they love the living.
Believing in sharing and caring and giving the movements.
They're always happy and always at play.
The movements are having fun day after day.
The movements.
Here they are for one and all.
The movements are about to come.
Come on and sit down here with me.
Therefore you are your TV.
They are the movements.
So come with me, give me your hand.
I'll take you up to a movement land.
You can fly just like a bird.
Sing that song ever.
There were the movements.
Captain Blood and his band of feared pirates had sailed the seas for many years,
but never could he remember a storm such as this.
He began to wonder whether his ship could withstand the battering and buffeting of the angry waves for much longer.
Alas, it is now too late to launch the lifeboat, he thought, as he lashed himself to the wheel.
His voice rose against the wind.
Captain Blood can think of no better death than to journey to the bottom of the sea, losing the last battle against his old adversary.
But if only I could see the life of the young and beautiful princess who I rescued from the dupe scallion before a ciker.
I care not about the three chests of doubloons, two chests of jewels, and 36 bales of the richest and most colorful silks.
But oh, must she too perish in this terrible storm.
What a terrible storm, it's not easing at all.
No.
I'm so glad I'm not on my own in a night like this.
I feel safe in the moment house.
Oh, what was that?
It sounded like a tree breaking.
Hey, moment.
Why don't you read your story out loud?
Oh, okay.
But can I start where I got to?
As long as you tell us what's happened before, we won't know what it's about.
And we might have missed something important.
Just the main points we'll do, women.
Well, there's this brave pirate.
Oh, it's so much fun when someone reads out loud.
Go on, moment.
Captain Blood.
And he and his men have captured a rich and royal gallery.
They've taken lots of gold, silver, and jewels and things.
And oh, yes, a princess too.
It's exciting, isn't it?
Yes, it is.
The storm that rose that night was so violent that at first,
it seemed inevitable the ship found before the waves had engulfed it.
Not bad, if I say so myself.
Captain Blood saw that the poor princess had indeed swooned.
With only the rats for company, how frightened she must have been down in the old.
The noise of the storm was deafening as the ship was thrown above under swirling sea.
The captain's brave heart went out to his young and beautiful captain.
Could I have some tea, Mama?
Of course, dear.
Would you like me to bring it up to you?
No thanks. I finished for the day.
That's good. Shall we all have some tea and lemonade?
Yes, please. I'm very thirsty.
You read very well. Thank you, women.
Great story, isn't it?
Could I have some strawberry juice, please, Mama?
It's not, Maiden. When is your brother coming home?
Oh, he didn't say exactly.
But in a couple of days, I should think...
It was a good idea to let snort Maiden stay while he was away, wasn't it, Papa?
Yes, it wouldn't be very nice to be all on your own at night in a storm like this.
Hmm, not at all.
She seems to be sinking.
She won't be able to hold out much longer.
We must get to the crew without delay.
How could we launch a boat in this weather?
Any survivors?
We haven't found anyone yet.
So what about further along the coast?
Any reports of survivors turning up?
No, I'm afraid not, Inspector. We haven't heard anything.
Well, tell me if you do.
Ah, Inspector.
Yes?
It seems to me it was a pirate ship that sunk.
What did you say?
Well, I'm pretty sure I saw the skull and crossbones flying from the mast.
And I think I caught sight of a cannon, but I could have been mistaken.
You must be joking.
I never joke.
I can't see anything. It's too far away to make out any sort of skull and crossbones.
Try this.
Ah, you've got a telescope. Now why didn't you let me have this before? It might have helped.
Oh!
Ah, that's it. She's gone.
I suppose that there aren't many pirate ships around today.
Any that are afloat must be so old that they'd probably break up easily.
That's if it was a pirate ship, but it sure looked like one right enough.
Nothing's been washed up on the shore yet.
No, not a thing.
Isn't it strange that I was reading that book about pirates yesterday?
They probably wouldn't be quite so romantic in real life.
Well, in the book they were really great. I wish I'd been one.
A pirate?
Yeah, what could be more exciting?
You can't mean that.
Oh, yes, I do. To sail across the seven seas, the holds of your ship's crowned with treasures.
But you'd have to steal the treasure from somebody first, so, Moomin.
Well, yes, alright. I suppose so. But I wouldn't steal anything from anyone.
Ah, then you're just a sailor. Not a pirate at all.
Moomin, Mama, do you know where Moomin is?
He's probably in Stuffkin's tent.
Oh, yeah?
Snork maiden, I have a letter for you.
Yeah, you are. It's from the snork.
Oh, thank you. Wait a minute, little Mai. I want to read Snork's letter.
Take your time.
Oh, what's the matter?
It's Snork. He's coming home today.
Well, that's nice.
But Moomin, Mama, there's no food in the house at all.
Now, don't worry about that, Snork maiden.
I'll whistle up some dinner for us, and Snork can tell us all about his trip.
Boom and Papa like that.
Oh, thank you, Mama. Snork doesn't like missing his meals.
He must have got the part sooner than he thought.
Ha, that's great news.
He should finish his flying ship soon, hey?
I guess so.
He should make it into a pirate flying ship.
I could be his first maid, and no one would be able to catch us.
Nobody at all!
Not here.
Oh, dear. I wonder where they've gone, little Mai.
There's nobody here.
Moomin probably wanted to go looking for an adventure.
I bet they went down to the beach to see if anything's been washed out.
At least the hangar's not been damaged.
Let's go down to the beach. We may find a treasure chest.
Huh?
What is it?
I just thought I heard something.
Where? From in there.
Hmm, weird.
Oh, I know. The snork must have come back.
Oh, yes. Snork. Of course.
Hello, snork.
Oh, snork? Are you in here?
Mm-hmm.
Ah!
Snork me.
Huh?
Put her down.
Oh, really? It was actually a pirate ship.
It was indeed Moomin Papa, and we caught the pirates when they swam ashore.
Do you think you captured all of them, Inspector?
Well, of course, we don't know exactly how many there were to begin with.
Hmm, right. I better barricade ourselves in Moomin House just to be on the safe side.
Oh, dear. And I suppose I ought to stand guard over my greenhouse as well.
Blast me, baby. So, come here, you little pineapple.
Do let snork me go. You'll be sorry. You great big hairy folly.
No, not in your life, though. It's just my hostage. I needed to make good my escape, but go.
Then you only have yourself to blame.
Hey, what? Blame? Stay where you are now. I will not be bitten again.
Keep away a little cat.
Well, don't hurt her then.
Don't hurt her, you little shark. She's a hostage. Come me one at that.
She'll be my safe passenger. These rough waters are perished.
Well, then you better take me instead, because I'm much easier to carry.
You, huh? Then nobody would care if I fed you slowly to the shrimps.
Oh, yes, lots of people. When you overstab win, baby.
All right, all right. Hold your head. We'd blow me down. No, what's your name, girl?
I'm Lil Mai.
Well, I'm Captain Rumpod. Not going to get whatever authorities you have in this backwater.
Hurry, my patience is short.
I'll only go if you promise that you won't hurt Snork Maiden.
Of course I won't.
If I find that you've heard her in any way at all, my revenge will be terrible.
All right, all right, all right.
Oh, boy.
Captain Rumpod, you are surrounded.
Let Snork Maiden go. Do you hear me, Captain?
Do a gold button land lover like you never.
She's a good-looking wench fair skinned and nicely rounded.
Pirates prefer blondes. Give me a ship and you can have her back.
What do you say to let my buck-hole?
You're on your own, Captain. We've got all your men locked up tight.
All me crew?
You're the last one. Now let her go immediately.
Thank you for saving me crew. I feared they were all lost.
Don't thank me. They're all in jail.
Ah, someone said it's the best place for them.
But not me. Now let them out. I need them and a proper ship.
Oh, with two masks and fifty cannon.
No tricks. Else it'll be worse for the girl.
This is too much.
The school for constables didn't tell us about theirs.
What should we do, Inspector?
Please get Snorke making away from him.
I'm afraid he'll hurt her and she'll be frightened.
I'm trying my best, but it's very awkward all this.
I've not come across anything like it before.
Oh, but it's not her fault that his ship sank, Inspector.
I know, I know. Oh, dear, oh dear.
Oh, I should have been a gardener.
Hey, are you still there, you ruffian?
Let my men go and get my ship. Two masks and fifty cannon mine.
Look, Captain Rumpod, I'm afraid that times have changed.
Sailing ships don't have cannon these days.
Shiver me timbers. How do you sink each other then?
I don't try to fool me. Remember, I've got the girl.
I think Moomin Papa has an old blender bus. I'm sure he'll let you have.
I don't know if it'll work, though. That's all I've got.
I'm one of you, pea brain. This is my final word. So listen well.
You have two hours to get the ship ready to sail,
and all my crew with her mine. Or else I'll...
Now, don't worry, my pretty one. I won't have a single hair on your head,
but I must have something to threaten them with.
Or else I'll feed her to the hungry shark.
Husker, I won't hurt you.
Are you sure?
Either I get my ship. Oak, fifty cannon, and at least two masters.
Master shall be food for lobsters.
it's your choice me has he
that you do it.
he sounds as if you'll do it too.
two hours he says a real feeder to the sharks, oh dear, dear.
what will snorks say, oh dear, dear.
I have a great idea, sir.
Why don't we climb on to the roof, drill a hole,
and then drops up on his hand.
No, Constable, I've always thought you were an idiot,
now you've proved it.
Excuse me, Inspector.
If we set fire to the hangar, then they'll have to come out.
Shut up! Why am I surrounded by fools?
This is no good.
I must calm down. I must calm down.
Captain Rumbot!
Can you hear me, Captain?
Aha, you found a ship already, have you?
Well, no, there aren't any real sailing ships in Moomin Valley.
The chief Constable has a yacht.
He doesn't usually let anyone borrow it, but I'm sure in this case he...
I want something big enough to take me to the Spanish main!
I warned you!
Calm down, Captain. Calm down.
Now just listen to me.
You haven't done anything wrong here.
No pirating or such like.
So if you forget about the boat, we'll let you all go.
Think about it.
Three to go anywhere you like. On foot, of course.
The fresh air, the sun on your face. No worry of shipwrecks.
No storms at sea.
What do you think we are?
We're pirates, not highwaymen.
It's not so bad being a highwayman, you know.
There'll be lots of rich travelers on the other side of Lonely Mountain.
I'm sure. And lots of adventures with jewels and gold.
Day me with flagens are rubbing a chicken brain, nitwit!
Nitwit?
No, niggum poop! Dumbbell!
I'm Captain Rumbot!
You're making me very angry!
If I had you on my ship, you'd dangle from the yard!
I'm yet to walk the flag!
The inspector's losing control.
We had better calm him down.
What the clank would I?
And in my prison, you'd get no butter on their bread.
And maggots on your biscuits!
Please calm down.
Is this what the pilot said?
Calm down. Take the museum.
Sure. We water.
I'd see too that the bread was milled.
That's 30 minutes gone already!
I warned you, gold button.
Now there is only one hour to her painful and horrible death!
Oh!
Cheer up, Snark Maiden!
Try and hold on! We'll get you out!
Water? Water?
Huh? What did you say?
Water, please. I'm so thirsty.
Water?
Mastik's stuff, still.
Hey, land lovers!
Compliments to the galley!
The young lady wants a drink!
All right, Captain. I'm coming, Snark Maiden!
I'll take it, Inspector.
It's too dangerous. You must leave it to us now, Momen.
Just a minute, Inspector.
I think we should let Momen go.
And I've got an idea that just might work.
Snark Maiden!
It'll take an awful lot of courage.
And you'll have to do it all on your own.
Do you think you can do it, Momen?
Of course.
Splice me, babe. Raise what's taken him so long.
Keep an eye on the lady. Wait.
It's all right. I really don't mind waiting.
Tell you the truth. I can do it and drink myself.
It's thirsty work. Shouting at idiot policeman.
Don't you worry, little one. They'll be here soon.
Get me a drink, too. You're here and quick about it!
I've brought you something to drink, Captain.
All right. Come on, then. And no funny stuff.
Don't worry. I'm on my own.
Have you done a drink for me, too?
Yes, Captain.
All right. Stay there and put down the tree.
The bigger one is for you, Captain.
And the little one for Snark Maiden.
Now move away.
That's far enough. Stay there.
Hmm. Why is it so red?
Well, it's strawberry juice. It's very good.
I'll be polite. She can drink from this one and I'll have hers.
But, Captain, there's not enough for you in the small one.
Strawberry juice isn't exactly my favorite tip of you.
Oh, no. The small one will do.
Here you are, young lady.
No, no, Snark Maiden. Please, don't drink it.
Why not, my young Bucco? It's not poison, is it?
Don't be silly. Poisoned? Oh, no, no.
Perhaps a sleeping potion.
Hmm. As I thought, I deemed mighty strange the two cups were prepared.
You drink it.
Oh, no, no, no, sir. I'm not thirsty at all.
What's the matter, Milad? You said the drink wasn't poisoned, didn't you?
So drink.
Movement?
Ah, you're her swing, are you?
I shall never understand women anyway.
One of you will have to drink it and now.
Not her. I'll do it. I'll do it. Give it to me.
No, Movement, don't. There's something in it. You'll be poisoned.
It's all right, Snark Maiden. It's nothing dangerous. Don't worry about me.
I'm drinking.
That's it. Drink up again.
Down the hatch, Milad.
You're lucky and wasn't poisoned.
Yeah.
And no sleeping potion, neither?
No, nothing at all. Nothing at all.
Oh, Movement! Oh, no, Movement!
You're not my pretty one.
Your wimpy little bow is just taking a nap. You'll be right as rain so...
And he thought he could fool me. Me, Captain Rumpot.
But she can. Well, I'll have the other one.
Not bad.
No, I'm sorry, young lady.
They'll have to bring you another.
Shall we order one without the draft?
They'll be surprised when they see me still on my pins.
Why do I not sleep at all?
Let's go and give my surprise.
A moment!
It's all right. I'm okay, Snark Maiden.
There's nothing in this drink. Would you like some?
A moment! You mean you!
Why was pretending? So I convinced you, too, huh?
A moment!
Captain Rumpot didn't wake up that day.
Or the next. And when he did, he had a terrible headache which served him right.
The inspector let all the pirates go after a week.
Well, they hadn't done any pirating in Moomin Valley. And wouldn't be doing any either.
Not without a ship.
A moment!
They loved the laughter and they loved the living, the movements.
Believing in sharing and caring and giving the movements.
They're always happy and always at play.
The movements are having fun day after day. The movements.
The movements.
They loved the laughter and they loved the living, the movements.
Believing in sharing and caring and giving the movements.
They're always happy and always at play.
The movements are having fun day after day. The movements.
The movements.
Here they are for one and all. The movements are about to come.
Come on and sit down here with me. They're here for you on your TV.
They are the movements. They are the movements.
So come with me, give me your hand. I'll take you up to Moomin Land.
You can fly just like a bird. Sing that song ever. There were the movements.
There were the movements. There were the movements.
There were the movements.
The rain was falling on Moomin Valley as though the heavens had decided to empty themselves.
It was the wettest weather that anyone could remember.
Mama, can I borrow this? Of course, dear.
You'll miss one too? Yes, dear, but what do you need them for?
It's a secret. A secret? Yeah, sure.
I'll want to see a back moment, but you can keep the jar if you like. Thanks.
Oh, dear. Oh, there are puddles everywhere. Oh, dear.
Oh, dear. Mr. Hemmilan, what a mess. Hello, Mr. Hemmilan.
Oh, good morning, Moomin. Oh, it's all misty now. What are you doing, Moomin?
Observing very closely. Oh, splendid, my boy. I'm glad you find botany so excited.
Hi, dear.